Soul;1;Detect Souls;1 round;Casting this spell, the priest sees a faint white glimmer around any soul within 300 + 100/F’. This will answer the question of whether or not a creature or object has a soul, and it will reveal the presence of any hidden or invisible souls.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;300 + 100/F’;see souls
Soul;2;Blast Soul;1 round;This spell allows the caster to strike the very essence of the soul itself. It can be cast upon any living, soul-bearing creature, or any soul visible to the caster, even if it is behind walls or cover. The target takes 2d6 blight damage.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;injure soul
Soul;3;Disconnect Soul;1 round;When this spell is cast, the caster’s soul is temporarily separated from their physical body. They may move around the area and observe things (sight only) with his soul. At the end of the duration, their soul is sucked back into their body. If their body is unavailable (time stopped, alternate dimension, etc.), the body must be returned in 5 minutes or the link is severed and the body dies when returned. If their body dies while without their soul, this spell becomes permanent and they become a lone-soul. ;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;disconnect soul
Soul;4;Soul Speak;1 round;This spell allows the caster to speak directly to a lone-soul. The caster and the lone-soul must be able to speak a common language. The caster must be aware of the soul’s existence when casting the spell. The conversation between the caster and the soul is not audible by living creatures, but can be picked up by other lone-souls.;none;hearing;10 + 5/F minutes;single lone-soul;speak with soul
Soul;5;Soul Swap;1 minute;This spell allows the caster and the target to temporarily swap souls. The mind of the caster and target are also exchanged. Skills are exchanged, all spells, including units, are exchanged. The spell can be canceled prior to the duration expiring if the caster and target touch and either wills to cancel the spell. If the caster or the target is killed during the exchange, the spell ends, drawing original souls into their own bodies where death might occur.;willing target;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single target;exchange souls
Soul;6;Scan Soul;2 rounds;This spell will allow the caster to look deep into a soul and find out its true nature. If the soul fails the resistance check, the caster will know the following information about the soul: spell units remaining of each type, as well as INT, CSE, WIL, and PWR attribute scores (including Exceptionals or Inferiors).;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;instantaneous;single target;scans a soul
Soul;7;Suppress Soul;2 rounds;This spell allows the caster to forcefully suppress the soul of the target. If the target fails the resistance check, their soul is forcefully dampened. The target’s body, mind, and spirit still function normally but they become incapable of casting divine spells above rank 3.;4d6 vs PWR negates;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single being;suppresses soul
Soul;8;Freeze Soul;2 rounds;This spell causes the soul of the target to become frozen. If the soul is inside a body, the body can still function normally, but will suffer two ranks of Inferior PWR and cannot cast any spells or activate psionic abilities above rank 8. If the soul is outside a body, the soul is frozen in place and cannot move. If cast on a lone-soul, the soul is Petrified and crystallizes into a material form and is able to be touched and moved.;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;freezes a soul
Soul;9;Soul Siphon;1 round;The caster drains the soul of the target, causing the target to suffer 6d6 of blight damage, and the caster healing for half the damage dealt, up to their maximum DP.;4d6 vs PWR halved;touch;instantaneous;single target;siphon power
Soul;10;Recall Soul;1 minute;This spell will allow the caster to call a soul that is known to them to their current location. This will only work on souls that are not currently attached to a body and have not left this world. If the soul is unwilling, the soul can attempt to make the resistance check. If it fails, he appears to the caster. The caster is free to do what they want with the soul and the soul may attempt to leave as soon as it is recalled. ;4d6 vs PWR negates;special*;instantaneous;one soul;recall a soul
Soul;11;Lock Soul;1 minute;This spell allows the caster to lock their soul to their living body. This will prevent all magic that attempts to break the link from functioning. If the body dies while this spell is in effect, the spell is canceled and the soul escapes the body as normal. ;none;caster;12 + 3/F hours;self;lock soul to body
Soul;12;Deliver;1 round;This spell allows the priest to forcefully separate the target’s soul from its body and deliver it into the afterlife. If the target fails, they take 10d6 of blight damage, and they lose their soul, gaining the Soulless creature ability.;6d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;send soul for judgment
Emotion;1;Read Emotion;1 round;This spell allows the caster to read the emotional state of the target. When touching a target, this spell will give the caster the target’s primary emotion.;none;touch;instantaneous;single target;read emotion
Emotion;2;Calm Emotion;1 round;When touching a target in an extreme emotional state, this spell allows the caster to calm the target’s emotional state (even if magically induced) to a reasonable level.;none;touch;instantaneous;single target;calms emotion
Emotion;3;Cause Fear;1 round;This spell will cause all targets within the spell’s area that fail the resistance check to have an extreme fear of the caster. For the duration of the spell, an affected target must make every effort to run away from the caster and cannot attack unless unable to escape. If the target makes the resistance check, they are unaffected, but must make the resistance check every round that they remain in the spell’s area. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;30 + 10/F’ radius;causes fear
Emotion;4;Cause Joy;2 rounds;This spell will cause all targets within the spell’s area that fail the resistance check to have extreme joy when seeing the caster. For the duration of the spell, all affected targets are unable to have a negative emotion about the caster and, thus, will not attack them and will help them if asked. This spell is broken if the caster attacks an affected target. After the duration expires, an affected target’s emotion will slowly return to its state prior to the spell being cast.;4d6 vs WIL negates;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;30 + 10/F’ radius;causes joy for caster
Emotion;5;Reverse Emotion;2 rounds;If the target of this spell fails the resistance check, the primary emotion they are feeling is reversed (even if magically induced). If they were feeling happy, they become morose. If they were fearful, they become courageous. When the duration expires, the target slowly returns back to their original emotion, unless the source of that emotion has been eliminated.;5d6 vs WIL negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;reverse emotion
Emotion;6;Share Emotion;2 rounds;For the duration of this spell, the caster and the target are aware of each other’s primary emotion. This doesn’t allow either to know why the other is feeling that emotion, just what the emotion is. ;willing target;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;share emotions
Emotion;7;Prevent Emotion;2 rounds;If the target fails the resistance check, or is a willing target, this spell allows the caster to place an emotional block on the target. For the duration of the spell, the target will be unable to experience an emotion of the caster’s choice through natural or magical means. The emotion can be fear, anger, or any other emotion the caster chooses. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;2 + 1/F hours;single target;prevents an emotion
Emotion;8;Emotion Pocket;2 rounds;This spell allows the caster to create a pocket of a specified emotion in the spell area. For the duration of the spell, anyone entering the spell area must attempt the resistance check. If the target fails the resistance check, they experience an extreme case of the emotion specified for the emotion pocket. This feeling will last while the target is within the pocket and continue for 15 + 5/F minutes after leaving the pocket.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;6 + 2/F hours;30 + 10/F’ radius;create emotional pocket
Emotion;9;Emotion Blast;1 round;When this spell is cast on a target, the primary emotion inside them is converted into a violent explosion of energy within themselves. This explosion causes 7d6 of energy damage to the target. If the target makes the resistance check, the damage is halved. ;5d6 vs WIL halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;blast emotions
Emotion;10;Emotion Block;2 rounds;This spell will cause all creatures within the spell’s area to have an emotion block put on them for the spell’s duration. While affected by this spell, the target cannot be affected by any emotion altering, probing, or exploiting spell or effects.;willing targets;caster;6 + 2/F hours;30 + 10/F’ radius;blocks emotion
Emotion;11;Quiet Emotions;2 rounds;This spell allows the caster to silence all emotions within them for the duration of the spell. Without emotion, the caster has a much higher degree of concentration on the task they wish to accomplish. All non-combat skill checks the caster wishes to make can be attempted at one die less than normal. This spell will also cause all emotion probing and changing effects to fail on the caster. ;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;self;silence emotions
Emotion;12;Flood Emotions;1 round;This spell will cause a target that fails the resistance check to have a different extreme emotion every round for the duration of the spell. This is extremely distracting and the target is unable to perform any action that requires more than one round to complete.;6d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;flood emotions
Energy;1;Detect Energy;1 round;This spell can detect all creatures in the area that have magical energy (EU, DU, and PU) and their relative amounts. All creatures that have magical energy will glow with a glow and tint relative to the amount and type of energy. ;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;LOS;show magical energy
Energy;2;Share Energy;1 round;This spell allows the caster to give another creature some of the caster’s magical energy. The type of magical energy is up to the caster. The amount of energy transferred is 2 + 1/F units of the selected type. ;none;touch;instantaneous;single target;gives magical energy
Energy;3;Alter Energy;1 round;This spell allows the caster to change some of the magical energy into a different type (It will allow them to change EU to DU or PU, DU to EU or PU, and PU to EU or DU). The caster chooses what they want changed and can change 4 + 2/F units. The caster cannot exceed their maximum number of units with this spell. This spell will only function on standard unit types as described in this spell. ;none;caster;instantaneous;self;change energy type
Energy;4;Steal Energy;1 round;This spell allows the caster to take the magical energy from the target. If the target fails the resistance check, the caster can take 5 + 3/F units of the casters choice from the target. The caster can only take one type of energy per casting. ;4d6 vs PWR negates;touch;instantaneous;single target;take energy
Energy;5;Protect Energy;2 rounds;This spell protects the caster from being drained of their magical energy. Any magical or physical attempt to drain the caster’s energy will fail; this includes contact with Terisium0. After the spell duration expires, the caster can be drained as normal. This does not prevent units from being used when casting spells. ;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;protect energy
Energy;6;Call Energy;3 rounds;This spell allows the caster to gain magical energy. The caster may roll 3d6 and add that amount to their DU, EU, and PU totals. This spell is very stressful on the soul and will cost the caster one point of PWR any time it is used more than once before a night’s rest. The first time this spell is cast, it prevents the caster from gaining units back during their next resting period.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;call upon energy
Energy;7;Energy Beam;1 round;This spell allows the caster to turn his magical energy into a beam of destruction. The beam deals 5d6 energy damage. If a creature in the area makes the resistance check, the damage is halved. ;4d6 vs PWR halves;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F rounds;4 + 1/F’ wide line;beam of energy
Energy;8;Store Energy;2 rounds;This spell will allow the caster to store any amount of magical energy, up to their PWR, in any non-living object. When the caster (and only the caster) wishes to regain the magical energy, they just need to touch the object with both hands for two rounds and the energy is returned to them. At the end of the spell’s duration, the energy dissipates from the object. A caster can only have up to PWR/4 (rounded down) energy stores at any one time.;none;touch;2 + 1/F days;one object;stores energy
Energy;9;Energy Enchant;2 rounds;This spell will allow the caster to enchant any weapon using their magical energy. A weapon touched during the casting will become a +1 + 1/F enchanted weapon for the duration.;none;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;one weapon;enchant weapon
Energy;10;Negative Energy Field;2 rounds;When this spell is cast, an invisible field is put up around the caster. Anyone within the radius who fails the resistance check must subtract 3 + 1/F units of each type per round they remain in the field. If they make the resistance check, they don’t lose any units, but must continue making the resistance check every round they are in the field. Units lost from this effect count as “used” for the purpose of PWR limit on units per round.;5d6 vs PWR negates;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;40 + 10/F’ radius;drain magical energy
Energy;11;Energy Drain;2 rounds;When touching a target, this spell allows the caster to drain the target of all magical energy. The caster gains the higher between 6d6 and the amount drained to one of their unit pools.;6d6 vs PWR negates;touch;instantaneous;single target;drain energy
Energy;12;Explode Energy;2 rounds;If the target fails the resistance check, all of the magical energy in them will violently explode. Anyone, including the target, within a 10 + 5/F’ radius of the target will suffer 1d6 points of energy damage per unit that explodes, capping at 20d6. Anyone damaged by the blast that succeeds at a resistance check of four dice against PWR suffer half damage.;5d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;explode target’s energy
Power;1;Empower;1 round;For the duration of this spell, the target gains one rank of Exceptional PWR. Due to the strain on the soul, only one attribute altering Almar spell may be in effect at the same time.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;increase PWR
Power;2;Powerless;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the target gains one rank of Inferior PWR.;4d6 vs PWR negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;decrease PWR
Power;3;Detect Power;1 round;For the duration of the spell, all creatures within the area will have a glow relative to their PWR attribute, with a different tint based on Exceptional attributes, which only the caster can see. This spell cannot be used to see invisible or ethereal creatures. ;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;LOS 60 + 15/F’;detect power
Power;4;Power Bolt;1 round;This spell allows the caster to focus their PWR attribute as a weapon. The target suffers pure magical damage equal to (PWR/3)d6, plus 1d6 for each rank of Exceptional PWR. Magical bonuses to PWR and magical Exceptional PWR ranks do not affect this spell. If the resistance check is made, the damage is halved.;4d6 vs PWR halves;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single target;attack with PWR
Power;5;Power Wall;2 rounds;This spell will create a barrier that may not be passed through unless the resistance check is made. Any creature can attempt the resistance check once per round when attempting to pass through. This barrier does not prevent magical teleportation, spells, or weapons from passing through. Failing the resistance check does not cause any adverse effects. The caster may pass through the wall without making the resistance check.;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;2 + 1/F hours;60 + 15/F’ square;create PWR barrier
Power;6;Drain Power;1 round;If the target of this spell fails the resistance check, their PWR is reduced by 4 + 1/F points. They may only cast spells in rank up to their new PWR. The target may reattempt the resistance check by taking their action to focus their power, ending the spell on a success.;4d6 vs PWR negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;lowers PWR
Power;7;Enhance Power;2 rounds;This spell improves the caster’s ability to channel magic. The next time the caster casts an elemental or divine spell, or activates a psionic ability or incant within the duration of this spell, the spell/ability is automatically cast as if finessed one time and doesn’t cost an additional spell unit for that finesse, nor does the caster need the spell ranking of the higher finessed spell. An affected incant is considered to have 1 additional rank of secondary skill made, although the total ranks of secondary skill are still bound by the rank of the incant itself. Any additional finesses or secondary skill ranks follow normal rules.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;power up spells
Power;8;Power Force;1 round;All creatures within the radius of this spell except for the caster take energy damage equal to 2d6 + (PWR/3)d6, plus 1d6 for each rank of Exceptional PWR. Magical bonuses to PWR and magical Exceptional PWR ranks do not affect this spell. If the resistance check is made, the damage is halved.;5d6 vs PWR halves;caster;instantaneous;20 + 5/F’ radius;strike all with PWR
Power;9;Power Shield;2 rounds;This spell creates a shield around the caster that protects them from magic. The shield has 9 charges, and when the caster is targeted by a spell, or included in a spell’s area of effect, they may use a reaction to expend any number of the shield’s charges to roll (charges used)d6 Counterspell against the incoming magic. Once the shield runs out of charges, it dissipates.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;magic shield
Power;10;Consume Power;1 round;After casting this spell, the caster can consume one point of their PWR attribute score to reduce the cost of any elemental or divine spell, or psionic ability, by up to 4 units (minimum 0). This can reduce the cost of finessed spells or higher ranking spells that the caster does not know to prevent overloading. Lost points are regained at the rate of one point per full rest period.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;consume PWR for magic
Power;11;Full Enhance;4 rounds;This spell functions like the Enhance Power spell, but automatically finesses spells and psionic abilities twice, and adds 2 ranks of secondary skill to activated incants, following the same limitations and guidelines.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;power up spells
Power;12;Share Power;2 rounds;For the duration of Share Power, any PWR attribute or resistance check is rolled against the highest PWR attribute value between affected creatures. Only natural PWR and Exceptional PWR are used when calculating the highest effective attribute value. All affected creatures roll their checks separately.As an action, the caster may transfer any amount of units of a single type between two willing affected creatures.;willing targets;multitouch;1 + 1/F minutes;touched creatures;your our power
