Tomboloko;1;Find Dead;1 round;Casting this spell causes any dead or undead bodies within the area of effect to radiate a cool white light visible only to the caster. This light can be seen through any non-magical material other than lead or adamantite.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;300 + 100/F’ radius;locate dead
Tomboloko;2;Tombstone;1 minute;Casting this spell on a grave allows the caster to quickly conjure a finished and inscribed grave marker. The marker can contain any markings which the caster would have been capable of inscribing with the proper inscribing tools. A grave marked by such a tombstone is considered holy ground, and the corpse within cannot be raised as an undead as long as the tombstone remains intact.;none;touch;permanent;one grave;creates marker
Tomboloko;3;Grave Sight;1 minute;Casting this spell on a grave marker or a grave will cause a vision to appear to the caster of the contents of the grave.;none;touch;instantaneous;one grave;view grave contents
Tomboloko;4;Preserve Dead;1 minute;The caster keeps dead tissue from further decay by casting this spell. If the tissue is animate (as in undead) it can avoid the effects succeeding at the resistance check. This spell can preserve corpses so they can be resurrected at a temple later. It will only protect against natural decay.;4d6 vs HEA negates;10 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F week;one corpse;preserves dead tissue
Tomboloko;5;Grave;1 minute;Any non-rock ground will split open in a 7 foot by 4 foot rift of up to 6 feet deep when affected by this spell. The caster may close the rift at any time during the spell’s duration. This grave is considered holy ground, and any corpse within cannot be raised as an undead as long as they are within the grave.;none;10 + 5/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;ground;opens grave
Tomboloko;6;Grave Lock;1 minute;This spell allows the caster to protect a grave from grave robbers. Any attempt to open or desecrate the grave will cause 4d6 light damage to the violator. This grave is considered holy ground, and any corpse within cannot be raised as an undead as long as they are within the grave.;none;touch;20 + 5/F weeks;one grave;protect grave
Tomboloko;7;Vervakadavro;5 rounds;A dead, but whole, body can be given movement by this spell. After the casting, the dead body will follow the caster’s simple orders involving movement. The animated body cannot manipulate objects or be given orders about the future, as the spell is only manipulating the body, not the soul.;none;30 + 10/F’;2 + 1/F hours;one corpse;allows movement
Tomboloko;8;Coffin;1 minute;This spell will summon a wooden box suitable for interment of a body. The workmanship will be equivalent to what the caster could do normally with the proper tools, but the magic crafts the coffin quickly and efficiently. This coffin is considered holy ground, and any corpse within cannot be raised as an undead as long as they are within the coffin.;none;touch;instantaneous;7’ x 4’ x 2’ ;crafts coffin
Tomboloko;9;Grave Ward;2 minutes;This spell allows the caster to protect a grave from grave robbers. Any attempt to open or desecrate the grave will cause 8d6 light damage to the violator. This grave is considered holy ground, and any corpse within cannot be raised as an undead as long as they are within the grave.;none;touch;30 + 10/F weeks;one grave;protects grave
Tomboloko;10;Regenerate Dead;1 minute;The caster can take a part of a dead body and cause its tissues to regenerate, leaving the body in a healthy, but still dead state. Any other parts of this dead body immediately decay into dust. This can restore a corpse from body destruction to be resurrected. This spell cannot be used on the living or undead. If used on the recently dead creature, the next Medicine: Revive is two dice easier.;none;touch;instantaneous;one corpse;restores destruction
Tomboloko;11;Mausoleum;10 minutes;This spell will fashion an appropriate mausoleum for up to 10 interned corpses. The workmanship will be only what the caster is capable of, but the mausoleum will be completed by the end of the spell. This mausoleum is considered holy ground, and any corpse within cannot be raised as an undead as long as they are within the mausoleum.;none;touch;instantaneous;10’ x 10’ x 7’;create mausoleum
Tomboloko;12;Grave Curse;10 minutes;The priest says this warding over a recently (less than one year) buried person. While touching the dirt of the grave, incanting the deceased’s name, and visualizing the circumstances of death, the priest places a ward upon the grave. When anyone attempts to disturb or desecrate the grave, they are immediately cursed with terminal bad luck. From that point on, the GM should automatically adjust all the cursed character’s die rolls to their least advantage. This curse can only be lifted by the caster or a high ranking priest of Anubis, and only when the priest (or the GM in their stead) believes the cursed target has properly atoned for their crime.;none;touch;special;special;curses defiler
Animotusi;1;Detect Souls;1 round;Casting this spell, the priest sees a faint white glimmer around any soul within 300 + 100/F’. This will answer the question of whether or not a creature or object has a soul, and it will reveal the presence of any hidden or invisible souls.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;300 + 100/F’;see souls
Animotusi;2;Empathy;1 round;Touching any target, the priest may learn of that target’s current predominant emotion or emotions. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;instantaneous;single target;senses emotions
Animotusi;3;Refresh;1 minutes;This enchantment soothes the soul of a weary adventurer, allowing him a more restful period of sleep. Each target recovers twice the normal amount of EU, DU, PU, and DP after the appropriate amount of sleep.;4d6 vs WIL negates;multitouch;one rest period;4 + 2/F targets;relaxed sleep
Animotusi;4;Soul Weapon;1 round;This spell causes a disruptive field to be attached to a melee combat weapon, causing it to strike at the very fabric of the soul as well as the physical body. Any weapon so treated will cause an additional 1d6 blight damage (bonus) per hit. In addition, the weapon counts as magical for the purposes of protections and resistances. It may also hit Ethereal or Immaterial creatures that have a soul.;none;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;one weapon;disrupts soul
Animotusi;5;Piety;1 round;This casting allows the priest to strengthen the resolve and belief of its target, whether in a god or gods, or in their own belief system. The target can subtract one die from any resistance check against energy drains, charms, and other mind affecting magic. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single target;strengthen faith
Animotusi;6;Slow Life;1 round;This spell takes all physical body functions and brings them to a halt. The target appears to go into a coma, almost indistinguishable from death. All bleeding, poisons, and diseases will be temporarily arrested. If this spell is used on a dying creature, they are suspended in their current state, and once the spell is dropped, they resume dying if not treated.;3d6 vs HEA negates;touch;6 + 2/F hours;single target;causes stasis
Animotusi;7;Exorcism;special*;This casting attempts to oust a spirit which has possessed a body other than its own. If successful, the foreign spirit is cast out, and the owner of the body regains control. The caster continues casting this spell each round until the spirit wins and retains control or the spirit loses and is expelled. At the end of each of the caster’s rounds, the spirit must make the resist check. If it succeeds three times, it retains control. If it fails three times, it is expelled out of the body.;5d6 vs WIL*;touch;instantaneous;single target;break possession
Animotusi;8;Soul Link;1 minute;This spell allows the caster and the souled target to share thoughts, emotions, and senses. Both the caster and the target hear each other’s thoughts, and can see and hear from each other’s senses.;3d6 vs WIL negates;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single target;shares thoughts
Animotusi;9;Iron Grip;1 round;A stronger version of Piety, this spell allows the target to subtract two dice from any  resistance check against energy drains, charms, and other mind affecting magic. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single target;fortifies faith
Animotusi;10;Soul Strike;1 round;A cone of disruptive energy emanates from the caster’s fingertip, causing 10d6 points of blight damage to all that possess a soul within its area. An undead target must succeed at the resistance check or it is disrupted and turns to dust. ;4d6 vs HEA halves;caster;instantaneous;20’ x 10’ cone;disrupt souls
Animotusi;11;Suspend Life;1 minute;This spell operates identically to Slow Life except this spell lasts until a fixed time elapses or a specific event occurs determined at the time of casting. The maximum duration for this spell is one year.;4d6 vs HEA negates;touch;up to 1 year;single target;suspends life
Animotusi;12;Deliver;1 round;This spell allows the priest to forcefully separate the target’s soul from its body and deliver it into the afterlife. If the target fails, they take 10d6 of blight damage, and they lose their soul, gaining the Soulless creature ability.;6d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;send soul for judgment
Trovisavi;1;View Semblance;1 minute;Touching a deceased body, the caster gains a vision of the semblance of the person just before death. The time the body has been dead determine the number of finesses required as follows:0 – up to one day1 – up to one week2 – up to one month3 – up to one year4 – up to ten years;none;touch;instantaneous;one corpse;see original features
Trovisavi;2;Cause of Death;1 minute;While touching a dead body, the caster can learn the cause of death (wounding, old age, poison, etc.). The time limits and finesses are the same as in the View Semblance spell.;none;touch;instantaneous;one corpse;determine cause
Trovisavi;3;Time of Death;1 minute;While touching a dead body, the caster can learn the approximate time which has passed since death.;none;touch;instantaneous;one corpse;determine time
Trovisavi;4;Know Identity;2 minutes;While touching a dead body, the caster can learn its name, occupation and where it lived. The time limits and finesses are the same as in the View Semblance spell. ;none;touch;instantaneous;one corpse;determine identity
Trovisavi;5;Location of Death;2 minutes;While concentrating on the features and personality of a dead person, the caster is drawn toward the site of the person’s death if it is within 20,000 + 10,000/F feet. The time limits and finesses are the same as in the View Semblance spell. ;none;special*;2 + 1/F hours;20000 + 10000/F’ radius;determine location
Trovisavi;6;Last Image;2 minutes;While touching a dead body, the caster gains a vision of the last sight the body had before death. The time limits and finesses are the same as in the View Semblance spell. ;none;touch;instantaneous;one corpse;see last sight
Trovisavi;7;Murder Weapon;3 minutes;While touching the body of a murder victim, the caster gets a clear vision of the murder weapon used. This spell will not reveal the identity of the murderer. The time limits and finesses are the same as in the View Semblance spell. ;none;touch;instantaneous;one corpse;reveal murder weapon
Trovisavi;8;Final Words;3 minutes;While touching a dead body, the caster hears the final few words that the deceased spoke before death. The time limits and finesses are the same as in the View Semblance spell. ;none;touch;instantaneous;one corpse;hear last words
Trovisavi;9;Find Witness;3 minutes;While concentrating on the features and personality of a dead person, the caster is drawn toward any witnesses of the deed that are within the area of effect. The time limits and finesses are the same as in the View Semblance spell.;none;special*;2 + 1/F hours;20000 + 10000/F’ radius;finds witnesses to death
Trovisavi;10;Dead Thoughts;4 minutes;While touching a dead body, the caster experiences the thoughts of the dead person for the last 10 + 5/F minutes leading up to their death (the same time as the duration of this spell). The time limits and finesses are the same as in the View Semblance spell. ;none;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;one corpse;read last thoughts
Trovisavi;11;Witness Death;4 minutes;While touching a dead body, the caster has a vision of the last 10 + 5/F minutes of the person’s life (same time as the duration of this spell), witnessed from a third-person view point. The time limits and finesses are the same as in the View Semblance spell. ;none;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;one corpse;view death
Trovisavi;12;After Talk;5 minutes;After a spirit has passed into the afterlife, the caster can attempt to temporarily recall it. The caster must touch the dead body, and utter the person’s name three times. If the soul is willing, or if it fails a resistance check of four dice against WIL, it is temporarily recalled to inhabit its body. It can only listen to and answer questions, which may only be asked by the caster. The time limits are quadruple those of the same as in the View Semblance spell, i.e. up to 4 days, up to 4 weeks, up to 4 months, etc. Finesses are the same. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;one corpse;speak with dead
Kadavros;1;Detect Undead;1 round;This spell causes any undead creature in the area to glow with a black aura. This will not reveal invisible and ethereal creatures. ;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;LOS;sense undead
Kadavros;2;Disperse Undead;1 round;This casting causes all undead in its area of effect to become Frightened of the caster and leave if they fail their resistance check. If the creature succeeds in the resistance check, they are immune to effects of this spell for the next 10 minutes.;4d6 vs WIL negates;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;20 + 10/F’ radius;send undead away
Kadavros;3;Repress;2 rounds;The targets of this spell who are willing or fail their resistance check temporarily have their souls and life forces masked. This means that all magic that targets the soul is ineffective against them. This does not keep them from acting, but it will allow them to pass some magical barriers, traps and tests.;3d6 vs WIL negates;multitouch;10 + 5/F minutes;4 + 2/F people;suppress soul
Kadavros;4;Hold Undead;1 round;Undead that fail this spell’s resistance check are Magically Paralyzed while the spell is in effect. The affected creature may reattempt the resist check at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single undead target;holds undead
Kadavros;5;Summon Undead;2 rounds;Any undead that fail this spell’s resistance check will come forth and face the caster. They do not heed their words, but neither do they attack them. Any attempt to harm the affected creatures breaks the spell. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;30 + 10/F’ radius;calls undead forth
Kadavros;6;Suppression;4 rounds;If the target fails the resistance check or is willing, its life force and soul are thrust into the background, leaving what appears to be an undead creature. This has the effects of the Repress spell. Additionally, the target can be affected by all magic which affects undead creatures.;3d6 vs WIL negates;touch, multitouch;10 + 5/F minutes;1 + 1/2F targets;disguises life
Kadavros;7;Regenerate Undead;2 rounds;The caster can repair damage done to an undead creature with this spell. Each casting repairs (6 + 1/F)d6 DP, up to the target’s maximum DP.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;instantaneous;single undead target;cures undead
Kadavros;8;Guard;4 rounds;Any undead affected by this spell must stay close to the caster and guard them from harm. The undead do not follow orders, but will recognize friends and foes as designated by the caster. Once a round, the undead will make a simple attack against any designated foes in melee range of the caster.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;2 + 1/F hours;single undead target;create undead guard
Kadavros;9;Release Undead;1 round;This spell revokes the magic animating an undead creature. If the undead fails the resistance check and has a spell effect on it that animates it, it collapses and turns to dust. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single undead target;destroys undead
Kadavros;10;Protect Undead;2 rounds;This spell allows the caster to protect an undead target from the effects of sunlight and guard against spell effects that specifically target undead. An aura of dimness surrounds the creature, allowing it to venture into the daylight without harm, and the creature takes one die off any resist check from a spell or effect that specifically targets undead.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;12 + 3/F hours;4 + 2/F creatures;screens daylight
Kadavros;11;Bind Undead;4 rounds;The caster causes the undead target to perform some specific task or action through the use of this spell. The spell lasts until the task is completed. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;special*;single undead target;command undead
Kadavros;12;Raise Undead;1 minute;The corpses targeted by this spell animates as a Skeleton or as a Zombie (caster’s choice). The undead is under the caster's control unless another effect takes control of it and it returns to the caster's control when that effect ends.Refer to Appendix C: Spell Clarification for creature write ups and control mechanics.;none;touch, multitouch;permanent;up to 3 + 1/2F corpses;raises undead
Faciligo;1;Anesthesia;1 round;The target of this spell gains one rank of Resist Pain. Additionally, they do not have to roll of unconsciousness, and instead will automatically fall Unconscious if they drop to 0 DP or lower.;willing target;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single living target;dull pain
Faciligo;2;Cold Comfort;1 round;After a chant to clean the soul and body the priest touches the target and heals 2d6 DP, up to the target’s maximum DP.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single living target;heals damage
Faciligo;3;Looming Mortality;1 round;The caster inflicts the target with a foreboding sense of existentialism and mortality. If the target fails the resistance check, they are Stunned. The target can reattempt the resistance check at the end of each of its turns, ending this effect on a success.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single living target;memento mori
Faciligo;4;Bonding;1 minute;The target's life force is linked to the priest's. If the target or priest dies the other will know where and will be able to see the scene at the time of death. ;willing target;touch;until death;single living target;links people
Faciligo;5;Inflict Suffering;1 round;The target suffers 5d6 points of pain damage as they feel the suffering of others.;4d6 vs CSE halves;touch;instantaneous;single creature;cause suffering
Faciligo;6;Path to the Grave;1 round;The target of this spell is cursed with a heightened mortality. Each instance of damage the target takes in the next round will deal an additional 1d6 of blight damage.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;1 round;single creature;speed up death
Faciligo;7;Stave Death;1 reaction*;Stave Death is cast when a willing ally suffers a critical hit. This spell will cancel the effects of the critical hit and the damage done by it, including fatal limb loss, as if the critical hit never happened.;willing target;LOS 20 + 5/F’;instantaneous;single creature;cancels wounds
Faciligo;8;Prayer of the Fallen;1 round;The priest utters a prayer for the souls around them. Any Dying willing allies within 30 + 10/F’ of the caster are immediately stabilized at 0 DP. ;willing target;caster;instantaneous;30 + 10/F’ radius;stabilize the dying
Faciligo;9;Reinvigorate Spirit;1 round;The priest channels their energy and the target gains 1d6 + 4 + 1/F divine units. ;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single living target;gives divine units
Faciligo;10;Last Request;1 round;Last Request, when cast upon a dying or just deceased body, infers a minor quest of the deceased choice upon all chosen targets within range. Failure to attempt the quest will result in 4d6 points of blight damage at the end of any day that the task is not attempted until completion.;none;touch;special*;special*;betasks request
Faciligo;11;Greater Good;1 round;The priest casts this spell on a creature that is dying or died no more than 2 rounds ago, and can transfer any amount of DP from the caster to the target. This DP transfer can be lethal to the priest. If the target is another priest of Anubis, the caster can also transfer their divine units to the target. If transferred DP heals the creature to 0 DP or above, the creature is revived.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single living target;sacrifice for another
Faciligo;12;Avenging Scythe;1 reaction*;The target of this spell must be bonded with the priest with the Bonding spell from this group. This spell is cast as a reaction to the target taking more than 20 points of damage from a single source or falling unconscious. Those that had a part in the bonded target’s suffering must make the resist check or take 12d6 blight damage as a specter of death appears near them. If this damage is lethal, their soul goes directly to the Infero to be judged by Anubis.;6d6 vs WIL halves;special*;instantaneous;special*;avenge harm
Rikolti;1;Mark of Delayed Judgment;1 round;Place a mark on the target’s soul. This mark is invisible to all non-Anubians, and allows the caster to know how close the target is to death - to the closest 10 DP. The mark may also be cast postmortem, provided the target has been dead for 1 minute or less. When a target dies, you may expend an additional unit and a fifth to move the mark to another target within range.In addition, if the target dies before the spell expires, it is granted grace before death by Anubis; if he judges the target to have died before its time*, its soul is sent back at the time of spell expiration and the target is returned to life, unconscious at 1 DP.;none;LOS 40 + 10/F’;1 hour;1 + 1/2F creatures;utility
Rikolti;2;Afterworld Vitality;1 reaction;When a creature dies within the target radius, you may cast this spell as a reaction to immediately heal 2d6 DP to any other creature, including yourself, within the target radius up to its maximum.;none;LOS 20 + 5/F’;instantaneous;single target;healing
Rikolti;3;Death Knell;1 round;You point at a creature and it is reminded of its mortality and imminent death. It must make the resist check or be Slowed by 20’ and Delayed.At the end of each of the target’s turns, it may reattempt the resist check, ending the effect on itself upon a success.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 40 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;debuff, mobility
Rikolti;4;Deathbringer;1 fifth;You summon a divine, magical melee weapon, or imbue an existing melee weapon with magical energy. Two finesses on this spell can allow one to summon a ranged weapon instead. If created from nothing, choose the form of this weapon to match an existing one in the manual.If the weapon was summoned from nothing, its STR restriction is a PWR restriction instead. This weapon deals blight damage regardless of the normal damage type of the weapon.If desired, upon the casting of this spell, you may make its damage nonlethal - a creature will not enter a Dying state when brought to 0 DP, and is simply knocked out.;none;self;1 minute;1 weapon;creation, blight damage
Rikolti;5;Mortal Surge;1 fifth;For the duration of the spell, Deathbringer attacks deal an additional (2 +  1/2F)d6 blight damage (bonus) once per round. ;none;LOS 10 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single weapon;buff, blight damage
Rikolti;6;Ma’at ;1 fifth;For the duration of the spell, blight damage dealt by the target ignores 1 + 1/2F ranks of Resist Blight.;willing target;LOS 10 + 5/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;buff
Rikolti;7;End of the Line;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the target may use their reaction to make a simple attack at any creature exiting their melee range. Two finesses allow targets to make such attacks at creatures entering or exiting melee range, and four finesses reduce the speed of creatures hit by these simple attacks to 0 until the beginning of their next turn.;willing target;LOS 40 + 10/F’;1 minute;1 + 1/F creatures;buff, utility
Rikolti;8;Oculus Mortem**;1 fifth;This spell marks the target, allowing one to more effectively guide them to their death. Deathbringer attacks against the marked target gain a bonus of 1 + 1/2F to their natural rolls and deal additional blight damage (bonus) equal to one-third of the attacker’s PWR attribute.;none;LOS 40 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;1 + 1/F creatures;debuff, blight damage
Rikolti;9;Lifesteal;1 round;The next time your Deathbringer weapon scores a critical hit during the spell duration, you or another creature within the target radius regains DP equal to the blight damage dealt. This effect may occur up to 3 + 1/F times during the spell duration. Once it has occurred the maximum amount of times, the spell ends.;none;LOS 10 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single weapon;buff, healing
Rikolti;10;Soulrender;1 fifth;For the duration of the spell, Deathbringer weapon attacks ignore the armor DVs of targets affected by Mark of Delayed Judgment, Death Knell, or Oculus Mortem.;none;LOS 10 + 5/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single weapon;buff
Rikolti;11;Relentless Pursuit;1 round;For the duration of the spell, take one die off any weapon skill rolled for your Deathbringer weapon.;none;LOS 10 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single weapon;buff
Rikolti;12;Judgment of Ammit;1 round;Upon the casting of this spell, gain 2 + 1/2F charges. Before the duration ends, you may use a charge and a fifth to teleport to a creature marked by the Mark of Delayed Judgment or Oculus Mortem within target distance, dealing 8d6 blight damage in the area around you upon landing, you and your allies do not take this damage.;5d6 vs HEA halves;caster, LOS 120 + 30/F’ ;1 + 1/F minutes;20 + 5/F’ radius;dimensional, blight damage
