Divination;1;Lesser Portent;1 minute;Roll a d6, and record this result. The caster can replace any d6 roll for skill check, stat check, resist check, unconsciousness roll, etc. made by the caster with this foretelling roll. The caster must choose to do so as a free action before the roll is made or as a reaction after the roll is made.Each fortelling roll can be used only once. Once the duration elapses, you lose any unused foretelling rolls.At higher finesse: for each 2 finesses, you can roll an additional foretelling d6. They follow the same rules as above.An individual may not have more than one “Portent” effect active at once. The caster must preemptively drop this effect before the duration elapses to cast a different portent spell.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;divine own result
Divination;2;Weal and Woe;1 minute;Using some form of Augury, be it draco bones, tarot cards, or dice sets, the caster receives an omen from At’ena or her servitors about the results of a specific course of action that the caster and/or their party plans to take within the next 30 minutes. The GM chooses from the following omens:Weal, for good resultsWoe, for bad resultsWeal and woe, for mixed resultsNothing, for results that are neitherThis spell does not take into account any superfluous circumstances that may change the outcome, such as Divine Interventions or chaos rolls. Once cast, this spell cannot be cast for one hour.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;get gut feeling
Divination;3;Gift of Warning;1 minute;After casting this spell, the caster will be warned of danger. While the spell is active, the caster’s party is guaranteed to win the first initiative roll of a combat. In addition, the caster and their companions within 30’ cannot be surprised, except if incapacitated by something other than nonmagical sleep. This spell will magically wake the caster and their companions within 30’ if any of them are sleeping naturally when combat begins.;none;caster*;6 + 2/F hours;self, 30’ radius*;get warning
Divination;4;Prophesize;10 minutes;Using some form of Augury, be it draco bones, tarot cards, or dice sets, the caster receives a hint for their next course of action. The caster should ask for a prophecy regarding a specific goal they or their party have. The GM then comes up with an omen or riddle that points them in that direction. This spell does not guarantee any course of action will be successful, nor does it guarantee that it is the safest or easiest course of action. ;none;caster;instantaneous;self;receive hint
Divination;5;Portent;1 minute;Roll a d6, and record this result. The caster can replace any d6 roll for skill check, stat check, resist check, unconsciousness roll, etc. made by the caster or a creature within 60 feet of the caster with this foretelling roll. The caster must choose to do so as a free action before the roll is made or as a reaction after the roll is made.Each fortelling roll can be used only once. Once the duration elapses, the caster loses any unused foretelling rolls.At higher finesse: for each 2 finesses, the caster can roll an additional foretelling d6. They follow the same rules as above.An individual may not have more than one “Portent” effect active at once. The caster must preemptively drop this effect before the duration elapses to cast a different portent spell.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;divine other’s results
Divination;6;Extract Truth;1 round;The caster asks a single yes or no question and then touches the target, who must make the WIL check or be compelled to respond with a truthful “yes”, “no”, or “I don’t know”. If the target makes the WIL check, they can give a false answer to the question. The caster does not know whether the resist check was successful or not.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;1 + 1/F questions;single target;extracts truth
Divination;7;Augury;10 minutes;The caster uses some form of Augury, be it draco bones, tarot cards, or dice sets, to commune with At’ena or her servitors and ask up to three questions that can be answered with a yes or no.At’ena and her servitors are not necessarily omniscient, especially concerning things that are unpredictable and chaotic, or things shielded from their gaze by powerful magic or flux. You may receive “unclear” as an answer if a question pertains to such information. The answers you receive are correct to the best of At’ena or her servitor’s ability, and the GM may choose to respond with a short phrase if a one-word answer could be misleading or contrary to At’ena’s interests. ;none;caster;instantaneous;self;foretell results
Divination;8;Third Eye;1 round;The caster focuses and grants themself or another creature an additional form of sight or knowledge. Choose one of the following benefits, which last for the duration:Gain 4 ranks of Night VisionGain 3 ranks of See MagicGain the Planar Sensing creature abilityUnderstand and read any spoken or written language (target can also speak in this tongue)The caster can only maintain this effect for one target at a time.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single target;grant perception
Divination;9;Greater Portent;1 minute;Roll a d6, and record this result. The caster can modify the natural roll by 1, to a minimum of 1 or a maximum of 6. The caster can replace any d6 roll for skill check, stat check, resist check, unconsciousness roll, etc. made by the caster or a creature within 60 feet of the caster with this foretelling roll. The caster must choose to do so as a free action before the roll is made or as a reaction after the roll is made.Each fortelling roll can be used only once. Once the duration elapses, the caster loses any unused foretelling rolls.At higher finesse: for each 2 finesses, the caster can roll an additional foretelling d6, which can each be modified by 1. They follow the same rules as above.An individual may not have more than one “Portent” effect active at once. The caster must preemptively drop this effect before the duration elapses to cast a different portent spell.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;divine and modify results
Divination;10;Compel Candor;1 round;The caster chooses any number of creatures within the spell’s area of effect, and these targets must make the WIL check or become mentally malleable. With a failed resist, the target(s) are unable to speak a deliberate lie, and all checks to extort information from the target(s) are made at one die less.;5d6 vs WIL negates;20 + 10/F’ radius;1 + 1/F minutes;chosen targets;compels truth from many
Divination;11;Eye of At’ena;10 minutes;The caster touches a target and bestows a limited amount of At’ena’s foresight and ability to see into the immediate future. For the duration of the spell, the target gains one of the following effects of the caster’s choice:The target cannot be surprised and has one die off all checks (attribute, resist, and skill). The foresight grants magic Defense Values of 4, and +3 to attack and damage rolls. Any critical hits against the target get a -20% penalty to the roll.;5d6 vs WIL negates;touch;1 + 1/F hours;single target;grant foresight
Divination;12;Show the Path;10 minutes;The target asks the caster for guidance on a specific goal, and the caster beseeches At’ena or her servitors. Through some form of Augury, be it draco bones, tarot cards, or dice sets, the caster receives and conveys a vision or omen of the shortest and most direct path towards accomplishing said goal. For the duration of the spell, or until the goal is accomplished or failed, the target knows how far their goal is and in which direction, and if they are presented with a choice of paths along the way, they automatically determine which path is the shortest and most direct route (but not necessarily the safest route) to the destination.At’ena and her servitors are not necessarily omniscient, especially concerning things that are unpredictable and chaotic, or things shielded from their gaze by powerful magic or flux. You may receive vague directions or the spell may fail entirely.Once cast, this spell cannot be cast for one day.;willing target;touch;1 month*;single target;foretell future
Time;1;Temporal Acuity;1 reaction*;The caster casts this spell as a reaction when initiative is being rolled. The caster chooses a target (which can be themself). This individual goes first in the combat round regardless of other “quick” abilities (ties with T’orites using Quick Burst or other At’enites using this spell).  If the caster casts this spell two rounds in a row, they cannot select the same target as the previous round.;willing target;LOS 20 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single target;gift alacrity
Time;2;Keep Tempo;1 minute;The caster gains the ability to know the exact time, down to the second, for the duration of the spell. They also always know the amount of time left before the next sunrise or sunset. This will notify the caster if any time-affecting magic affects them, and remove or relieve adverse effects from distorted perception of time.;none;caster;6 + 2/F hours;self;track time
Time;3;Chronal Shift;1 reaction*;The caster magically exerts limited control over the flow of time around a target, casting this spell as a reaction after the target makes an attack roll or resist check. The target must reroll, and must use the result of the second roll.Once cast, this spell cannot be cast for one minute.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;shift time
Time;4;Synchronize;1 minute;The caster touches up to their CSE in willing targets. The caster and these targets are all able to know the exact time, down to the second, for the duration of the spell. Additionally, these affected individuals take one die off any Psychology: Tactics checks between them (only works on individuals that already have ranks in Psychology: Tactics).;willing target(s);touch;2 + 1/F hours;multitouch*;synch time
Time;5;Temporal Echo;1 round;The caster bends the Reto’tempo to manifest an echo of themself in an adjacent empty space next to the caster. This echo is a magical, translucent image of the caster. It shares the same Defense Values, stats, movement, and appearance as the caster, but only has 1 Damage Point. The caster can mentally command the echo to move as a free mental action on their turn, but if the echo is ever over 30 + 15/F’ from the caster, it is destroyed. The echo does not grant any additional actions.When the caster casts spells or makes an attack while the echo is active, the spell or attack can originate from the caster’s space or the echo’s space. The caster cannot have more than one echo active at any one time.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minute;self, 30 + 15/F’;manifest echo
Time;6;Temporal Morass;1 round;The caster slows the flow of time around a target. If the target fails the resist check, they begin flickering with blue and red after-images, their speed is halved, and they lose their ability to use reactions.;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;slow timestream
Time;7;Chronal Abeyance;1 reaction*;The caster casts this spell upon seeing another spell being cast within the target range. This causes the spell to stutter mid-cast, and increases the casting time by 1 round. The current round of spellcasting is effectively wasted.;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 100 + 30/F’;1 round;single target;stutter spell casting
Time;8;Momentary Stasis;1 round;A sphere of shimmering, translucent energy appears, and everything within is suspended in time. The sphere feels solid from the outside, and creatures cannot enter into the sphere. Any creature within the sphere should roll the resist check to attempt to escape the area when the sphere appears.The field and the object appear immaterial and cannot be affected by anything other than its revocation. When the duration expires or the spell is revoked, the affected will not know anything has happened to them.;4d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 100 + 30/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;halt time
Time;9;Chronal Break;1 round;The caster shunts the minds of the target(s) of this spell out of the present moment in time, trapping them either in moments of the past or events that have yet to pass. The GM has the option to roleplay these flashes if it may be pertinent to the story. During this time, the target(s) are Stunned, but any damage will instantly snap the creature out of this effect.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 round;1 + 1/2F targets;shift timestream
Time;10;Temporal Pulse;1 round;The caster expels a cone of raw temporal energy, which rapidly ages and de-ages those within the area,  damaging their bodies and minds. This deals 10d6 time damage, or half if the creature succeeds the resist check. Failing the resist check also results in the creature’s age changing by 1 year. If the damage is even, they age 1 year older. If the damage iss odd, they de-age 1 year younger. ;5d6 vs HEA halves;caster;instantaneous;30’x60’ + 5’x10’/F cone;ravaging time pulse
Time;11;Reveal Reto’tempo;1 round;The caster thrusts a target’s mind and body out of time and reality, into the turmoil and madness of the Reto’tempo beyond, as they flicker in and out of existence. The caster must continually cast and concentrate to maintain this effect, up to a maximum of 4 rounds, if they are interrupted, the spell ends prematurely. The target must make the PWR check each round, and if they succeed, the spell ends. Upon each failure, roll on the effects table below: D4    Effect  1      Mind-breaking visions deal 4d6 mental damage  2      A rending rift in spacetime deals 5d6 physical damage  3      A wormhole teleports them up to 30’ to a point of the caster’s choice  4      The chilling void deals 6d6 cold damage;6d6 vs PWR negates*;LOS 30 + 10/F’;special*, up to 4 rounds;single target;reveal Web of Time
Time;12;Temporal Split;1 round;The caster bends the Reto’tempo to manifest a more complete echo of themself in an empty space in the area. This echo is a magical, translucent image of the caster. It shares the same Defense Values, stats, movement, and appearance as the caster, but only has half the Damage Points. The caster can mentally command the echo to move as a free mental action on their turn, but if the echo is ever over 30 + 15/F’ from the caster, it automatically dismisses. The echo does not grant any additional actions.The caster can use an action during the duration to dismiss or resummon the echo within the area.As a fifth, the caster can magically teleport and swap spaces with the echo, regardless of the distance between them.When the caster casts spells or makes an attack while the echo is active, the spell or attack can originate from the caster’s space or the echo’s space. The caster cannot have more than one echo active at any one time.;none;self;2 + 1/F hours;30 + 10/F’ radius;manifest powerful echo
Maturity;1;Guidance;1 round;The caster grants the target a mote of spiritual guidance. The target can use a free action anytime in the duration to expend the mote of guidance to add 2 to the ranks of a rolled skill. This cannot be applied to skills the target does not already know. Success or fail, once this mote of guidance is expended, the spell elapses.;willing target;touch;1 + 1/F minute;single target;grant guidance
Maturity;2;Induce Naivety;1 round;The caster causes the target of the spell to become naive. If the target fails the resistance check, they become impetuous, more trusting, and unsophisticated.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minute;single target;reduce maturity
Maturity;3;Borrowed Knowledge;1 minute;The caster looks into the past to borrow knowledge for the future. For the duration, the caster can default a single, specified skill they do not have at 1 less die. This can only reduce the extra dice of a defaultable skill to a minimum of 1.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;borrow knowledge
Maturity;4;Keen Mind;1 reaction*;When a willing ally makes an attack within range, the caster sharpens their mind and focus. This spell can be used after the attack roll was made, but before damage is dealt. The target adds 1 + 1/2F to the natural roll of the triggering attack roll.;willing target;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single target;sharpen mind
Maturity;5;Artisan’s Guidance;special;The caster assists with some form of crafting, be it smithing, carpentry, etc. This allows the artisan to reroll their skill check, and take the better result.;willing target;touch;special;single target;greater guidance
Maturity;6;Learn from the Past;1 reaction*;When a willing ally within range of the caster misses a target with an attack roll, the caster grants that ally a +4 to their next attack roll against the same target made within the duration of the spell. ;willing target;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;learn from failure
Maturity;7;Regress Maturity;1 round;The caster causes the mind of a target to regress in time. All of the target’s skills are reduced by 4 ranks, to a minimum of 1.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;make immature
Maturity;8;Voice from the Past;1 minute;The caster contacts the spirit of a long-dead creature. Contacting this spirit can strain or even break the caster’s mind. Upon casting this spell, the caster makes a 3d6 vs WIL resist check. On a failure, the caster takes 3d6 mental damage and suffers from a minor form of insanity which lasts until the caster takes a long rest, chosen by the GM or rolled randomly:D4    Effect 1      The caster suffers short-term amnesia 2      The caster becomes paranoid of everything and everyone 3      The caster suffers from psychosomatic blindness 4      The caster develops a phobia of the GM’s choiceOn a successful resist check, the caster asks the spirit up to five questions, determined by the amount of finesses. The GM answers each question with one word, such as "yes," "no," "maybe," "never," "irrelevant," or "unclear" (if the entity doesn't know the answer to the question). If a one-word answer would be misleading, the GM might instead offer a short phrase as an answer.;3d6 vs WIL negates*;touch;1 + 1/F questions;single target;talk to past
Maturity;9;Nature’s Guidance;1 minute;The caster briefly becomes one with nature and gains knowledge of the surrounding territory. In the outdoors, the spell grants knowledge of the land within 20,000 feet. In caves and other natural underground settings, the radius is limited to 300 feet. The spell doesn't function where nature has been replaced by construction, such as in dungeons and towns.The caster instantly gains knowledge of up to three facts about any of the following subjects as they relate to the area:terrain and bodies of waterprevalent plants, minerals, animals, or peoplesstrong influence of divine, psionic, or elemental energiesinfluence from other planes of existencebuildingsFor example, the caster could determine the location of powerful undead in the area, the location of major sources of safe drinking water, and the location of any nearby towns.;none;caster;instantaneous;20000’ radius*;one with surroundings
Maturity;10;Ancestral Experience;1 minute;The caster brings forth knowledge from their ancestors. For the duration of the spell, the caster gains 12 ranks in one skill they do not currently have. If the skill would be limited by an attribute, it will be limited to that rank. This spell can be additionally finessed for effect. For two finesses, the caster can gain 10 ranks in 2 different skills. For four finesses, the caster can gain 8 ranks in 3 different skills.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;use past knowledge
Maturity;11;Self-Realization;1 round;The caster grants the target a mote of self-realization, calming their mind and sharpening their wit. This makes the target’s mind malleable, and able to adjust to changes and effects quickly. At the start of each round, the target can choose to gain one rank of Exceptional in one mental attribute (INT, PER, CSE, PWR, or WIL) for the round. The target then rechooses this Exceptional Mental Attribute each round.;willing target;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;self;grant self-realization
Maturity;12;True Guidance;1 minute;The caster takes experience from the future and the past to guide a willing ally to succeed at a given task. This guidance lasts until the target performs a skill check that can be accomplished in 1 minute or less. The target can take up to 4 dice off their next skill check, or off the default (a 8-die default will become a 4-die default).;willing target;LOS 60 + 15/F’;special*;single target;best guidance
Causality;1;Causal Flux;1 reaction*;The caster casts this spell as a reaction when a high-or-low roll is made by the GM to determine whether or not an effect will happen. This will influence the high-or-low roll by (5 + 5/F)% in the caster’s favor.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single target;influence causality
Causality;2;Twist Fate;1 round;The caster twists fate either in favor of the target, or to the target’s detriment. If the target of the spell fails the resist check, the caster can choose to raise or lower the next attack roll against the target by 1.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;twist fate
Causality;3;Fortune’s Favor;1 minute;The caster imparts latent luck to the target. When the chosen target makes a skill check or a resist check before the spell ends, they can dismiss this spell on itself to roll an additional d6 and drop the highest die value rolled.;willing target;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single target;grant latent luck
Causality;4;Induce Order/Chaos;1 reaction*;The caster casts this spell when a damaging spell is cast within the range. This spell lets the caster modify the damage roll of the incoming spell by 2 + 1/F points. This cannot increase the damage of the spell above the maximum, or lower the damage below the minimum. For example, a Fireball dealing 8d6 damage cannot be modified above 48 or below 8.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;induce order or chaos
Causality;5;Misfortune;1 round;The caster curses the target with misfortune. All attack rolls made by the target in the duration are reduced by 1, and all resist checks and skill check rolls are increased by 1. ;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/2F rounds;single target;cause misfortune
Causality;6;Reduce Possibility;1 minute;The caster chooses a specific type of failure or unpredictable turn of events to avoid. The caster must make a 4d6 vs CSE check or the spell fails. If the spell succeeds, the possibility of the specific failure or turn of events is reduced by up to 50% (which could be determinable by high-or-low roll). Once cast, this spell cannot be cast for one day.;4d6 vs CSE negates*;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;reduce future possibility
Causality;7;Weave Fate;1 reaction*;The caster casts this spell as a reaction when the target rolls a resist check. The target rolls the resist check but additionally rolls one extra d6. The caster can choose whether or not to cause the target to drop the highest die value rolled or drop the lowest die value rolled for the resist check.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;influence fate
Causality;8;Abey Fate;1 reaction*;The caster casts this spell as a reaction when an ally would take an instance of damage. The damage is delayed by the duration of the spell, and at the end of the duration, the damage is then applied to the target. This spell can only be applied to one instance of damage on a target at a time. This spell does not affect the Keep Healthy Zepherin spell.;willing target;30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F rounds;single target;abey damage
Causality;9;Curse of Ill Fate;1 round;The caster curses up to three chosen targets within the range with misfortune. All attack rolls made by the target in the duration are reduced by 2, and all resist check and skill check rolls are increased by 2. ;5d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F rounds;up to three targets;curse with misfortune
Causality;10;Unstable Presence;1 round;The caster destabilizes their presence within causality. The first time the caster is hit with an attack each round, one of the following random effects occur, centered on the caster:D4    Effect 1      Day becomes Night and vice versa in a 60’ radius 2      Gravity is reduced by half in a 60’ radius 3      10’ radius pressure burst, dealing 1d6 damage to all but caster 4      The caster magically teleports to a position of their choice within 30’;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;Self, special*;causal destability
Causality;11;Tether Fate;1 round;The caster targets two creatures within range. Both targets must make 4d6 vs CSE checks, or 5d6 vs CSE checks if they are within 15’ of each other. If either resist succeeds, the spell has no effect. If both saves fail, the creatures are magically linked for the duration, regardless of the distance between them, while on the same plane. When damage is dealt to one of them, the same damage is dealt to the other one. If Damage Points are restored to one of them, the same number of Damage Points are restored to the other one. If either of the tethered creatures is reduced to 0 Damage Points, the spell ends on both. If the spell ends on one creature, it ends on both. ;4d6 vs CSE negates*;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;two targets;links fate of targets
Causality;12;Seal Fate;2 rounds;The caster seals the fate of the target, dooming them to an early demise. For the duration of the spell, the target rolls the 5d6 vs CSE check each round, taking 5d6 blight damage or half on a success. If the target dies while affected by this spell, they cannot ask for Divine Intervention to a deity upon death, as their fate is sealed.;5d6 vs CSE halves;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;seals fate
