Curses;1;Curse of Enmity;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the target rolls four six-sided dice when making a Divine Intervention roll, and ignores the lowest rolled result.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F days;single creature;mark with disfavor
Curses;2;Curse of Insomnia;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the target must make a resistance check to fall asleep when taking a rest period. If failed, the target does not benefit from the night’s rest as they stay awake, unable to fall asleep.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LSO 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F days;single creature;trouble sleeping
Curses;3;Curse of Clumsiness;1 round;For the duration, if the target fails an AGI resist check by 5 - 1/2F or more, they fall prone in addition to any other effects.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F days;single creature;make clumsy
Curses;4;Curse of Open Wounds;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the target only heals half as much DP from any source of healing, and if they start Bleeding, nothing can staunch the wounds until this spell ends.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;reduced healing
Curses;5;Curse of Uncertainty;1 reaction*;This spell is cast as a reaction to initiative being rolled. The target is Delayed.;4d6 vs INT negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single creature;uncertain actions
Curses;6;Curse of Suffering;1 round;The next 1 + 1/2F time(s) the target takes any form of physical damage during the spell’s duration, they take an additional 3d6 light damage (skill). This curse then ends.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;increased suffering
Curses;7;Curse of Inability;1 round;The caster chooses an attribute upon casting this spell. The resist check is then 4d6 vs the chosen attribute. For the duration, all skills that are based on the chosen attribute are one die harder. This does not affect Activated (A) or Passive (P) combat skills.;special*;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;reduce competency
Curses;8;Curse of Rigid Body;1 round;For the duration, the target is treated to be wearing armor with AGI and STR penalties as well as a -20’ movement penalty. If the target is already wearing armor with these penalties, this curse has no effect.;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;stiff joints
Curses;9;Curse of Exhaustion;1 round;The caster chooses one physical attribute (STR, AGI, HEA, COM) and one mental attribute (INT, PER, CSE, PWR, WIL). For the duration, the target has an Inferior Attribute in the chosen attributes.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;exhausted mind and body
Curses;10;Curse of Enfeeblement;1 round;For the duration, all of the target’s melee attacks deal only half damage.;5d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;weakened attacks
Curses;11;Curse of Misfortune;1 round;For the duration, all of the target’s rolls are modified by 1 + 1/4F against them (higher for skill and resist checks, lower for attack rolls and contested checks, etc.).;5d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;bad luck
Curses;12;Curse of Vulnerability;1 round;For the duration, the target reduces the rank of all of their Resist creature abilities and effects by 1 rank. Additionally, any True Immunity and Magic or Silver Shield abilities only halve damage instead of providing complete immunity. Finessing this spell twice will reduce Resist abilities and effects by 2 ranks, and cause Immunity abilities to quarter damage. With four finesses, Resist abilities and effects are reduced by 3 ranks, and Immunity abilities are nullified.;6d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;remove resistances
Curses;13;Mass Curse;1 round*;The priest casts this spell in the round before casting a curse from this group. This modifies the affected spell in the following ways:The Resist Check is increased by 1 die (up to 6d6)The Target range is increased to 120 + 30/F’The Duration is increased to 1 + 1/F minutes if it isn’t instantaneousThe Area of effect is changed to 20 + 5/F’ radiusEach affected creature will receive the intangible sign of the affected curse, and be affected in the same way. If the caster can choose an effect when the spell is cast, they choose one effect that affects all the creatures, and cannot choose different ones for different targets.;none;caster;special*;self;curse many
Blessings;1;Divine Grace;2 minutes;For a period of 24 hours after this blessing is laid on a target by a priest, the target is in a state of divine grace. If the target attempts to call upon a deity for intervention and fails, they can ignore the roll and roll again to check for success. Once used, this blessing ends, and further attempts are made as normal.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;24 hours until used;single creature;raise chances for DI
Defer;2;Defer Fate;2 minutes;For a period of 24 hours after this blessing is laid on a target by a priest, one random selection can be avoided. When the GM starts to choose which adventurer is affected by an event by using a random die roll, a target with this blessing expends it by asking to be excluded from the pool of possible targets. The GM then makes the selection, ignoring the target.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;24 hours until used;single creature;avoid one selection
Defer;3;Abate Fatigue;2 minutes;The priest lays their hands on the target, helping it recuperate. This has the effect of one night’s rest, healing the target and regenerating their spell ability as if it had rested for a full rest period. This is borrowing against the target’s future recuperation powers, so the next actual rest period will have no effect. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;instantaneous;single creature;borrow against rest
Defer;4;Optimize Onslaught;2 minutes;For a period of 24 hours after this blessing is laid on a target by a priest, on any physical attack that the target fails, they may choose to ignore the first roll and attempt the roll again. Once this option is taken, this blessing expires. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;24 hours until used;single creature;increase hit chance
Defer;5;Enhance Potential;2 minutes;For a period of 24 hours after this blessing is laid on a target by a priest, the target can choose to use the blessing on any one dice roll. When they do this, they make the roll twice, and the higher of the two totals is the true result.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;24 hours until used;single creature;ignore one attack
Defer;6;Defy Injury;2 minutes;For a period of 24 hours after this blessing is laid on a target by a priest, the target can ignore the damage from a single physical hand to hand attack. After the GM announces the adventurer has been hit, and before they announce the result, the players can state they are expending the blessing to ignore the damage. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;24 hours until used;single creature;ignore one attack
Defer;7;Augment Task;2 minutes;For a period of 24 hours after this blessing is laid on a target by a priest, when the target attempts a skill check and fails, the player can expend this blessing to ignore the result. They then rolls the same check again and abides by its result. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;24 hours until used;single creature;improve chances
Defer;8;Attract Fate;2 minutes;For a period of 24 hours after this blessing is laid on a target by a priest, one random selection can be attracted. When the GM starts to choose which adventurer is affected by an event by using a random die roll, a target with this blessing expends it by asking to be the affected one. The GM then acts as if the target was the one selected.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;24 hours until used;single creature;attract one selection
Defer;9;Forestall Conflict;2 minutes;In the next 24 hours, the target can expend this blessing by calling out “Stop in the name of” the blessing’s deity. This blessing is used after initiative is rolled but before any other actions have been declared. This does not count as the blessed target’s action for the round. For this entire round of action, creatures cannot take any action that would harm any other creature or object not owned by them. Any spells that would hamper that target in any way would be considered harmful. After the round is complete, all creatures are free to act normally again.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;24 hours until used;single creature;interrupt conflict
Defer;10;Second Chance;2 minutes;For a period of 24 hours after this blessing is laid on a target by a priest, when the target attempts a resistance check and fails, the player can expend this blessing to ignore the result. They then roll the same resistance check again and abide by its result. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;24 hours until used;single creature;raise chances
Defer;11;Abate Outcome;2 minutes;The target expends this blessing when the GM is rolling one result which will affect the target. The effect then occurs to the target as if the GM rolled the minimum on each die of the effect. A Fireball that would do 8d6 of damage does only eight points to the target. This does not change the effect on others sharing the same outcome and the use of this blessing must be announced before the roll result is revealed to the player. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;24 hours until used;single creature;minimize one result
Defer;12;Share Grace;special*;A priest uses this spell in combination with any of the other blessings of up to rank eight. The second blessing then can affect as many people as the priest’s CSE attribute. The combined casting time of the two spells is sequential (so it takes a total of four minutes).;special*;multitouch;24 hours until used;touched creatures;bless a group
Fabrications;1;Create Light;1 round;The caster summons a small floating ball of light from their deity’s plane that floats around them for the duration of this spell. The light created is equal to a common torch. The light can be thought-commanded to move by the caster as a free action, but cannot be more than 30’ away from the caster.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;30’ radius;create light
Fabrications;2;Divine Bolt;1 round;The caster calls forth a small amount of divine power. A brilliant flash of light is fired at the target, dealing 2d6 light damage. Aesthetic effects appear around the spell when cast, changing based on the deity.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;divine damage
Fabrications;3;Create Nourishment;1 minute;Upon casting this spell on a patch of ground or rocks, pure water will begin to flow. Parts of the ground can also be shaped into bread, fish, or meat. This provides enough supplies to sustain 2 + 2/F people for one day.;none;touch;instantaneous;ground or rocks;create supplies
Fabrications;4;Summon Scripture;1 minute;This spell allows the caster to summon a book of scripture from their temple. This scripture is infused with divine magic. It is always seen in the caster’s primary language, unless that language has no written form (in which it then appears in Paroli). This scripture can be used to reveal secrets or provide the priest with advice from the past. For the duration of the spell the caster may take 1 die off any Lore: Religion checks.;none;caster;10 minutes;self;summon scripture
Fabrications;6;Create Nectar;1 minute;The caster of this spell changes a small bottle of holy water into a silver liquid. When drunk, the target rolls a 2d4 and adds this amount to one of their unit pools. The target can only drink one vial of Nectar per full rest. Further attempts to restore units this way result in the target taking 2d4 light damage.;none;touch;instantaneous;1 vial of Holy Water;regain units
Fabrications;7;Create Abraxas;1 round;The caster clenches their fist whilst casting this spell. When casting is done, the caster will be holding a small newly crafted symbol of their faith. The symbol is always made of silver, and the area moves with the caster for the duration of the spell. If an undead or demonic creature starts their turn in the area, or enters the area on their turn, it must make the resist check or become Dazed. A Dazed creature can reattempt the resist check at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. Once a creature succeeds against this spell, it cannot be affected by it for 24 hours.;4d6 vs WIL negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;30 + 10/F’ radius;create holy symbol
Fabrications;8;Create Calming Aura;1 minute;The caster draws a circle on the ground around the area of the spell. This creates a calming aura in the area. If wishes to incite violence within the area of effect, then they must make the resist check. If they fail, they are unable to bring themselves to harm others whilst in the area of effect. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;2 + 2/F hours;60 + 15/F’ radius;create calming aura
Fabrications;9;Create Demonic Ward;1 round;The caster summons the symbol of their deity. Any demons within the area of effect must leave upon failing the resist check. A creature failing the check must remain outside the area for the duration of the effect. Once a creature succeeds against this spell, it cannot be affected by it for 24 hours. This can also Revoke demonic magic influencing a person by touching the symbol to the person. This acts as a rank 10 Revocation that only works against demonic magic.;4d6 vs WIL negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;30 + 10/F’ radius;ward demons
Fabrications;10;Create Ichor;1 minute;This caster changes a small vial of Holy Water into a golden liquid. When drunk, the target rolls a 4d4 and adds this amount to one of their unit pools. The target can only drink one vial of Ichor per full rest. Further attempts to restore units this way result in the target taking 4d4 light damage.;none;touch;instantaneous;1 vial of  Holy Water;regain units
Fabrications;11;Sacred Blast;1 round;The caster calls forth divine power from their god. A small burst of light is created wherever the spell is placed. This burst does 9d6 light damage to all creatures within the radius of the spell. Aesthetic effects appear around the spell when cast, changing based on the deity.;5d6 vs PWR halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;20 + 5/F’ radius;divine blast
Fabrications;12;Create Magical Protection;3 rounds;The caster summons a colorful cloak around the target of this spell. While worn, the cloak grants either 1 + 1/2F ranks of Resist Elemental or 1 + 1/2F ranks Resist Psionics (caster’s choice) for the duration of the spell. ;5d6 vs PWR negates;touch;1 minute;single creature;resist magic
Detections;1;Share Vision;1 round;The priest casts this spell immediately after casting any spell or receiving any effect that would give them a vision. They may share this vision with up to 1 + 1/F creatures they touched during casting. This can also be used to share the vision granted by other Detections spells. The duration of this effect matches the duration of the vision or other Detections spell.;willing targets;multitouch;special*;1 + 1/F creatures;share sight
Detections;2;Detect Divinity;1 round;This spell causes creatures, people, and objects blessed with divine magic to glow with a white aura. The stronger the holiness, the brighter the light appears. Priests have a faint glimmer, and prophets shine brightly. This spell will also detect demonic or desecrated creatures, people, and objects, which glow with a black aura. The spell does not reveal creatures and objects hidden to the caster.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;LOS;see divine
Detections;3;Detect Material;1 round;When casting this spell, the caster must concentrate on a mundane non-magical material they know of, such as iron, stone, or blood. Upon casting, for the duration of the spell the caster will see a faint maroon glow around objects containing the material within the range of the spell. This light can be seen through walls.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;300 + 100/F’ radius;locate material
Detections;4;Detect Life;1 round;For the duration of this spell, everything the caster sees that has a life force has a faint blue aura surrounding it that only the caster can see.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;100 + 20/F‘ radius;find similar object
Detections;5;Detect Object;1 round;When casting this spell, the caster focuses on a specific non-magical object on their person. Upon casting, for the duration of the spell the caster will see a faint mauve glow around objects similar to the one they selected. For instance, if the caster were to use this on a plant, they could find other plants of the same species. If the caster were to use this on a plank of wood, they could find wood of similar size and of the same material.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;300 + 100/F’ radius;locate object
Detections;6;Detect Captivation;1 round;This spell allows the caster to see an orange aura around those who are under mind controlling or charming magic.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;LOS;reveal charm
Detections;7; Detect Unlife;1 round;This spell causes any creature in the area that does not have a life force of its own to obtain a black aura. This will reveal invisible and ethereal creatures. This includes but is not limited to, zombies, mummies, ghosts, hirudo, golems, and magically animated constructs.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;100 + 20/F‘ radius;see undead
Detections;8;Detect Motivation;1 round;The priest sees a glimmer around all intelligent creatures. The color of the glimmer varies depending on the motivation. The priest intuitively knows what each color represents. Mind control and magical effects are able to disguise a target’s motive.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;LOS;reveal motive
Detections;9;Detect Extraplanar;1 round;For the duration of this spell, the caster may see varying auras around extraplanar creatures and objects. Demonic creatures and objects affected by demonic magic appear red, spirits and spiritual objects such as Incants glow blue, elementals and elemental objects glow yellow, and any other extraplanar creatures or objects will glow a different color.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;LOS;detect non-native
Detections;10;Reveal Fear;1 round;If the target fails the resist check, then the caster will learn the target’s greatest fear. The caster receives a die off any Psychology checks made against the target for the next 1 + 1/F weeks.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 40 + 10/F‘;instantaneous;single creature;reveals fear
Detections;11;Detect Vitality;1 minute;For the duration of this spell, the caster sees a pink aura around all creatures. The brightness of the aura is dictated by the amount of DP the creature has. Due to this, the caster is able to discern the amount of DP something has, rounded to the nearest 10.;none;caster;5 + 1/F minutes;LOS;see DP
Detections;12;Detect Ally;1 minute;The caster chooses a willing target to become permanently linked to. The caster may then spend 1 round and 1 DU to activate the spell. Once activated, for the next hour, the caster will know the location of the target, as well as their amount of DP and whether they are in danger. The caster may create up to their CSE/2 in links.;willing target;special*;special*;single creature;link and detect friend
Influences;1;Revoke Fear;1 round;This spell causes the target to lose cause for fear, removing the Frightened status on a target. Succeeding the resistance check allows the target to regain control of their actions.;3d6 vs WIL accepts;LOS 20 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single creature;removes fear
Influences;2;Instill Fear;1 round;The target of this spell suddenly becomes afraid of everyone and everything around them, causing them to take on the Frightened status.;3d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;causes fear
Influences;3;Lesser Healing;1 fifth;The target of this spell heals 1d6 damage points up to their maximum.;willing target;LOS 20 + 5/F’;instantaneous;single target;restore some DP
Influences;4;Attention;1 round;Attention allows the priest to grab the attention of those within clear hearing of their voice and make them listen to what they have to say. It does not affect their opinion of the caster or their message.;4d6 vs WIL negates;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;clear hearing;forces others to listen
Influences;5;Close Wounds;1 round;This spell removes the Bleeding status effect from the target. If this spell is finessed twice, it may staunch a magical effect, such as Curse of Open Wounds.;3d6 vs CSE*;touch;special*;single creature;stop bleeding
Influences;6;Sight;1 round;This spell can restore vision to one who has recently been Blinded. Additionally, the affected creature cannot be Blinded for the duration of the spell.;willing target;touch;1 + 1/F minute;single creature;provides sight
Influences;7;Stabilize;1 minute;The target of this spell makes a progressive check against CSE.If the target makes 3 dice, they may remove the Dazed status effect.If the target makes 4 dice, they may remove the Stunned status effect.If the target makes 5 dice, they may remove the Unconscious and Dying status effects. If the target had less than 1 DP, they are healed up to having 1 DP. The caster may finesse the effect of this spell to reduce the amount of dice required to make the check by 1/2F dice.;special*;touch;instantaneous;single creature;regain stability
Influences;8;Enthrall;3 rounds;Like Attention, this spell forces others to listen to the priest’s words. It also causes the targets to make the resistance check or believe, at least temporarily, what the priest says. When the duration expires, its effects slowly fade over one hour.;4d6 vs WIL negates;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;clear hearing;influence others
Influences;9;Healing;1 fifth;The target of this spell heals 3d6 damage points up to their maximum.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single creature;restore DP
Influences;10;Paralyze;2 rounds;The target becomes incapable of voluntary muscle movement, making the target Magically Paralyzed and causing them to fall Prone for the duration of the spell. The target may reattempt the resist check each time they take damage and at the end of each of its turns, ending the spell on a success.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;paralysis
Influences;11;Revoke Curse;2 rounds;This spell allows the caster to lift a curse.If the curse being revoked is cast on an item or non-living target, then the caster must succeed at a 4d6 vs CSE check to revoke the curse.If the curse is cast on a person, then this spell acts as a rank 12 Revocation spell against the curse.Unique curses might require specific rituals and ingredients to be successfully revoked.;special*;touch;instantaneous;single creature;removes curse
Influences;12;Divine Word;1 round;This spell requires no motions. The priest simply utters a few words in the form of a command. All within hearing, including the caster, must succeed at the resistance check or follow that command for the spell’s duration. ;6d6 vs CSE negates;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;clear hearing;forces obedience
Revocation;1–16;Revocation (Divine);3 - 1/2F rounds;The Revocation spell disrupts other magical effects. Roll (rank of Revocation)d6 Counterspell targeting one magical effect within range.When targeting enchanted items, roll Counterspell as normal. On success, the item turns into a mundane version of itself for 1 hour per rank of Revocation.The Divine Revocation spell may be used on elemental, psionic, or other non-divine effects and items but receives a 2-1/2F die penalty on the Counterspell roll.;none;LOS 80 + 20/F’;instantaneous;1 magical effect;nullify divine power
Defer;1–16;Defer;1 minute;Casters use the Defer spell to delay the effects of another spell. The caster picks a single item and casts the Defer spell on it. This places a magical field about the item that can hold another spell in rank equal to or less than the rank of the Defer spell used. Immediately after this, the caster casts another onto the same item. Finesses must be included at the moment of casting, but do not increase the required rank of Defer. The magical field created by the Defer ensnares this spell, holding it within the field.As long as the Defer spell lasts, the holder of the item can direct the ensnared spell to discharge, having the same effect as if they had cast it originally. The spell’s release from the Defer depends on the spell’s casting time and rank of the Defer.Spells with casting time of “fifth”, “reaction” or “none” are always activated with the same action cost.Defer 1-6 is activated as a fifth.Defer 7-16 is activated as a standard action.The person triggering the spell is considered the caster for the purpose of dropping the spell during its duration. Spells released with the Defer are not valid targets for Maintained Cast (CS).Casting a Defer spell above rank 12 does not require experience points to cast.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;1 item, 1 spell;delay spell effect
