Recover;1–12;Recover;special*;This blessing of Isis grants her priests grand healing powers. For each rank of the spell used, the targeted creature gains 1d6 damage points up to their maximum.The casting time of this spell varies based on the strength of the effect:Recover 1-6  – 1 round casting timeRecover 7-12 – 2 round casting timeWhen used as a rank 7 or higher, any excess healing above normal maximum amount of DP is converted into temporary DP. Refer to Chapter 7: Combat for the general temporary damage points mechanic.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single creature;restore health
Mending;1;Anesthesia;1 round;The target’s pain is temporarily reduced by using this spell. The target gains 1 + 1/4F ranks of Resist Pain for the duration.;willing target;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;reduce pain
Mending;2;Soothe Mind;1 round;The target’s mind is calmed and protected from outside influences. The target gains 1 + 1/4F ranks of Resist Charm for the duration.;willing target;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;mental calming
Mending;3;Invigorate;1 round;This spell awakens the target from non-magical sleep. The target is allowed to reattempt resistance check for any Unconscious status effect due to magical sleep at 1 die less. If successful, the target awakens.When fully finessed, the spell also allows its target to press on regardless of how fatigued they might be.;none;touch;12 + 3/F hours;single creature;energy rush
Mending;4;Treat Disease;1 round;An ill target feels better after having this spell cast on them. Any natural illness is cured. The target is allowed to reattempt a resistance check for any magical illness they currently suffer from at 1 die less. If successful, the target is cured of magical illnesses as well. Any status effects resulting from cured illnesses are negated.;willing target;touch;special;single creature;heal disease
Mending;5;Arrest Death;1 round;The spell places its target into a heavy coma. This coma stabilizes the condition of the target. No further blood will be lost, and if the target is dying due to a suffered critical wound, their death is postponed until the spell’s duration expires.;none;touch;1 day;single dying creature;induce coma
Mending;6;Mend Critical Wound;1 round;The caster places their hands on the creature that suffered any injuries due to a critical hit over the last minute. Such injuries are healed and their effects are negated, though this does not recover the extra damage dealt from the critical hit.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single creature;repair body
Mending;7;Mend Senses;1 round;Casting this spell while touching the creature that lost any of their senses (vision, hearing, taste, smell or touch), restores lost senses, negating any status effects resulting from the lack of sense such as Blinded and Deafened. Any effect that would impose these status conditions in the next minute can be resisted at 1 less die.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single creature;repair senses
Mending;8;Detoxify;1 round;Touching a poisoned target while casting this spell causes all poisons and toxins in the target to change to a harmless substance. All active effects from poison are negated, except, of course, for death.When fully finessed, the target also gains 2 ranks of Resist Poison creature ability for 2 hours.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single creature;remove poisons
Mending;9;Mend Body;1 round;The priest lays their hands on the target to mend broken bones, restore damaged or lost organs and limbs as well as return proper control over body movements to the creature. Bleeding, Paralyzed and Stunned status effects are negated. The Slowed status effect is negated if applied as a result of a physical injury.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single creature;heal body
Mending;10;Remember;4 rounds;If a person has lost their memory due to physical or magical means, this spell allows the caster to reach deep into the target’s mind and pull isolated events to fore. If the target succeeds at a resistance check of four dice against PER, these events will jog their memory clear and restore their lost memories.;4d6 vs PER accepts;touch;instantaneous;single creature;heal memory
Mending;11;Clarity;1 round;A person under the effect of the spell has their mind cleansed of all ailments. Charmed, Dazed, Frightened and Enraged status effects are negated. Permanent ailments are suppressed for 1 day, but then continue as normal.;none;touch;instantaneous;single creature;clear mind
Mending;12;Mend Lifeforce;2 rounds;The priest lays their hands on the creature suffering from various forms of drains (attribute, maximum damage points, etc). Effects that cause temporary loss of attribute points or maximum damage point pool are negated. The target may now recover drained damage points normally, including via magical healing, and are no longer prevented from using magical abilities.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single creature;remove drains
Mending;13;Recall;1 minute;The priest uses some of their own lifeforce to reignite life within a recently departed creature.This spell does not cost any experience when used on the creature for the first time.Refer to Appendix C: Spell Clarifications for general resurrection mechanics.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single creature;resurrect
Mediate;1;Saint Aura;1 round;The caster emanates an aura of holiness and desire for peace. Any creature failing the resistance check of four dice against their CSE attribute is compelled to treat the caster with respect and hospitality. The aura has no effect on creatures in combat.;4d6 vs CSE negates;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;aura of peace
Mediate;2;Soothing Speech;1 round;Any word uttered by the caster has a calming effect. The caster takes one die off any Acting: Persuasion or Psychology: Diplomacy checks made in an attempt to prevent escalation of conflicts.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;self;easier diplomacy
Mediate;3;Sense Hostility;1 round;The priest casts this spell to be able to detect hostility and bloodlust directed at them or their allies. For the duration of this spell, creatures that are hostile or aggressive are outlined with shades of red with the shade corresponding to the intensity of hostility.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;60 + 15/F’ radius;detect hostile creatures
Mediate;4;Mercy of Isis;reaction;When the caster sees their opponent dying, they may choose to use this spell. The target is aware of the intent behind this spell and, if willing, is left at 1 DP and unconscious.Any further hostile actions against the target are prevented for the duration unless the attacking creature succeeds a resistance check of four dice against their CSE attribute.;willing target;LOS 60 + 15/F’;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;grant mercy
Mediate;5;Suppress Hostility;reaction;The priest momentarily reduces the target’s hostility, preventing it from going all-out. The target failing the resistance check is prevented from using any weapon skills or maneuvers during their round, but may still make simple attacks. If the target is a spell caster, they are prevented from using any offensive spell above rank 6.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single creature;stop hostility
Mediate;6;Aerate;1 round;The caster releases a barrier that pushes away any impurities in the air such as odor or noxious/poisonous fumes, negating any effects of them. Magical effects such as nomadic bombards, smoke screens, poison clouds are not negated but have their effects weakened making them 2 dice easier to resist.When fully finessed this area moves with the caster.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;20 + 5/F’ radius;clear the air
Mediate;7;Non-Lethality;1 round;The caster applies a blessing of non-lethality to the affected creatures. A creature affected by this blessing may choose to make any damage originating from them to be non-lethal. This includes damage from weapons and spells. If an opponent would be put into dying or dead state by any damage originating from the affected creatures, they are instead left at 1 DP and unconscious. ;willing targets;multitouch;1 + 1/F minutes;2 + 1/F creatures;make non-lethal
Mediate;8;Keep Away;1 round;The priest conjures a barrier that keeps creatures hostile to the caster out. Any hostile creature in the area must attempt a resistance check of 4 dice against their WIL attribute or be forced to spend all of their actions on moving away until they reach the edge of the area of effect. Any hostile creature entering the area must attempt the same resistance check or be unable to willingly enter for the duration.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;20 + 5/F’ radius;keep out hostiles
Mediate;9;Lesser Sanctuary;1 round;The priest shields the target from hostility. Any creature that attempts to attack the protected creature or target them with an offensive spell must attempt a resistance check of 4 dice against their CSE attribute or be unable to attack the protected creature for the duration.If the target attacks, targets with a spell or harms their opponents in any way, the spell immediately ends and cannot be used for the rest of the combat.;4d6 vs CSE negates;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;shield from hostility
Mediate;10;Delay Action;1 reaction*;This spell is used in reaction to the initiative roll. The target of this spell is Delayed.;5d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single creature;delay turn
Mediate;11;Idleness;1 round;The priest makes the opposing party less driven. The spell targets the entire group of enemies (capping at around 50 creatures), the creature with the highest CSE attribute in the opposing party attempts a resistance check. If failed, all initiative rolls of the affected party are reduced by 4 and affected creatures cannot act on Quickened priority.;6d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 120 + 30/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;up to 50 creatures;make lethargic
Mediate;12;Sanctuary;1 round;Any opponent attempting to strike or otherwise directly attack the caster, even with a targeted spell, must attempt the resistance check. If they succeed, they may attack and target the caster normally and are no longer affected by this spell. If the resistance check is failed, the opponent cannot follow through with the attack and that part of their action is lost. They can no longer attack the caster for the duration of the spell. This spell does not impact area of effect spells that do not target the caster directly.If the caster attacks, targets with a spell, or harms their opponents in any way, the spell immediately ends and cannot be used for the rest of the combat.;6d6 vs CSE negates;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;protect from combat
Gift of Life;1;Restorative Sleep;4 rounds;Creatures affected by this spell gain 1 rank of the Regeneration creature ability for the duration of their next full rest period.;4d6 vs WIL negates;multitouch;one full rest period;2 + 1/F creatures;heal faster
Gift of Life;2;Revitalize;none;This spell is used in conjunction with a check against Medicine: First Aid. The caster gains a die off for the check. When fully finessed it can also apply to Medicine: Revive.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;first aid
Gift of Life;3;Bolster;1 round;The priest magnifies the target’s life force, increasing their current and maximum DP pools by 10 + 5/2F.;willing target;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single creature;bolster against damage
Gift of Life;4;Share Burden;1 reaction*;This spell is cast as a reaction when a willing ally takes damage. During the round this spell is used, half of the damage points inflicted upon the target are instead taken by the caster.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single creature;share damage
Gift of Life;5;Regenerate;1 round;When cast upon a living creature, this spell will allow the target to regenerate its body for the duration of the spell. The target heals 2d6 DP and additionally for 1d6 every round after the first one while the spell is active.;willing target;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;heal during combat
Gift of Life;6;Delay Harm;1 reaction*;The caster uses this spell as a reaction when a willing ally would take damage. A single source of damage is delayed until the start of the target’s next round of initiative. Delayed damage cannot be delayed further with another use of Delay Harm or any similar effect.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single creature;delay damage
Gift of Life;7;Chain Heal;none;This spell is used in combination with any other Isis spell that restores damage points. The spell then affects 1 + 1/2F additional creatures if they are valid targets for the original spell. If used on a non-instantaneous spell, the original spell’s effect only lasts for 1 round for additional creatures.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;heal many
Gift of Life;8;Healing Surge;none;This spell is used in combination with any other Isis spell that restores damage points. Make a roll for the effect and then double the result. If used on a non-instantaneous spell, the original spell effect is only doubled for the first round.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;double healing
Gift of Life;9;Save Life;1 reaction*;As a reaction, the caster channels the power of life to heal a creature that is about to fall Unconscious or die as a result of DP loss. The targeted creature gains 6d6 damage points.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single creature;save from death
Gift of Life;10;Shield of Isis;1 round;The target of this spell is protected from death. If the target would be put below 0 DP by a single damage source, the spell triggers and the target is at 1 DP and conscious instead. If the target would die as a result of a spell effect, this spell triggers and the effect is negated. The spell then ends.Only one instance of this effect can be active on the target at any point in time.;willing target;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single creature;shield from death
Gift of Life;11;Rejuvenate;2 rounds;The caster shares their life force with touched creatures. For the duration of this spell, the creatures’ maximum and current DP pools are increased by 20 + 5/F.;willing target;multitouch;10 + 5/F minutes;touched creatures;guard against damage
Gift of Life;12;Source of Life;1 round;The caster turns into a source of restorative energy. Every ally in the area of effect heals 4d6 DP every round for the duration.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;40 + 10/F’ radius;heal all allies
