Explosive Augmentation;1;Lengthen Fuse; 1 round;This spell will delay the lit explosion’s detonation for up to an hour. At the end of the duration, or when the spell is dropped, the explosive will go off normally. This enchantment can be on an explosive with another Mishra enchantment.; 2d6 vs PWR negates; LOS 100’; 2 + 1/F hours; single explosive; delay explosion
Explosive Augmentation;2;Enhance Explosive; none;This spell is used in combination with a grenade/Shaped Charge throw. This spell will, after cast on a grenade or Shaped Charge, allow the user to re-roll the damage (the 4d6 on grenades, or strength check (Shaped Charges, for getting through walls) on the targeted explosive). This will allow the damage for grenades to be re-rolled, and the higher or lower number (specified by the caster when it goes off) is taken.; none; touch; instantaneous; single explosive; better grenades
Explosive Augmentation;3;Spurn Grenade; none;This spell is used in combination with a grenade throw. When a grenade enchanted with this spell explodes, it causes normal damage and anyone within the grenades radius must make a resistance check of 4 dice against STR or get blown back 30’.; 2d6 vs PWR negates; touch; instantaneous; single explosive; add knock-back
Explosive Augmentation;4;Infatuated Grenade; none;This spell is used in combination with a grenade throw. A grenade enchanted with this spell is drawn to opponents of the thrower. As a result, the thrower gains a bonus of 2 + 1/F to their ranged attack roll. ; 2d6 vs PWR negates; touch; instantaneous; single explosive; follow opponents
Explosive Augmentation;5;EMP Grenade; none;This spell is used in combination with a grenade throw. When a grenade enchanted with this spell explodes, it causes normal damage as well as 2d6 points of electrical damage. In addition, on a failed resistance check, non-shielded technology on the target stops functioning for 1d4 minutes. If the technology is sentient, it gets an additional resistance check of 4 dice against HEA to avoid this effect.; 2d6 vs PWR negates; touch; instantaneous; single explosive; take out tech
Explosive Augmentation;6;Flashbang; none;This spell is used in combination with a grenade throw. When a grenade enchanted with this spell explodes, it causes normal damage and anyone within the grenades radius must make a resistance check of 4 dice against PER or be blinded for 1d4 rounds. ; 2d6 vs PWR negates; touch; instantaneous; single explosive; bright flash
Explosive Augmentation;7;Claymore; 1 round;When casting this spell, the caster places the explosive in a designated location. Once this spell is cast (and after the caster exits explosive radius), anyone approaching within half the explosives radius (minimum of five feet) will cause the explosive to trigger and explode. This enchantment can be on an explosive with another Mishra enchantment. ; 2d6 vs PWR negates; touch; 2 + 1/F hours; single explosive; trigger of movement
Explosive Augmentation;8;Enhance Destruction; none;This spell is used in combination with a grenade throw. When an explosive enchanted with this spell explodes, it causes normal damage and nearby structures must make a resistance check of 4 dice against STR or be destroyed.; 2d6 vs PWR negates; touch; instantaneous; single explosive; blow stuff up
Explosive Augmentation;9;Frost Grenade; none;This spell is used in combination with a grenade throw. When an explosive enchanted with this spell explodes, it causes normal damage and anyone in the radius must make a resistance check of 4 dice against HEA or lose half of their movement rate for 1 + 1/F minutes. In addition, anyone in the radius suffers 5d6 cold damage (half on a successful resistance check).; 3d6 vs PWR negates; touch; instantaneous; single explosive; freeze enemies
Explosive Augmentation;10;Napalm Grenade; none;This spell is used in combination with a grenade throw. When an explosive enchanted with this spell explodes, it causes normal damage and an additional 5d6 points of fire damage. The fire continues to burn, inflicting the Burning status for five rounds after the explosion goes off and will catch flammable things on fire. The fire is nonmagical and can be put out normally.; 3d6 vs PWR negates; touch; instantaneous; single explosive; leave fire
Explosive Augmentation;11;Singularity Grenade; none;This spell is used in combination with a grenade throw. When an explosive enchanted with this spell triggers, it implodes before exploding. Anyone within 20’ must make a resistance check of 5 dice against STR or be pulled toward the explosion’s radius prior to the explosive damage occurring. The following explosion causes normal damage plus an additional 5d6 points of blunt damage. ; 3d6 vs PWR negates; touch; instantaneous; single explosive; create singularity
Explosive Augmentation;12;Disarm; 2 rounds;If the target of this spell fails the resistance check, the targeted limb explodes violently, causing 6d6 points of pain damage to the target and causing the target to start Bleeding until the wound is treated. If the resistance check is made, the target suffers half damage and no Bleeding damage occurs.; 6d6 vs HEA negates; touch; instantaneous; single limb; blow off a limb
Bullets;1;Mark; 1 round;When a bullet enchanted with this spell hits a target (with the ranged touch), it deals no damage, but highlights the target for all allies to see. The blue highlight can be seen through walls.; 4d6 vs PWR negates; touch; 4 + 2/F rounds; single bullet; mark opponent
Bullets;2;Velocity Rounds;1 round;A gun enchanted with this spell has its bullet speed increased by two. This results in the range increment of the weapon doubling for the spell's duration. ;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single gun;increase ammo speed
Bullets;3;Shoot Anything;1 round;This spell is cast on a bag of non-magical items. Each item must be able to fit in the palm of the caster’s hand. For the duration of the spell, items enchanted with this spell can act as ammunition. The object retains its shape, but the magic allows it to be fired. Items that have additional effects, such as grenades, can be fired, but will not activate.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;bag of stuff;shoot junk
Bullets;4;Ricochet;1 round;The bullets enchanted with this spell bounce off of walls when hitting them. The caster can accurately predict and exploit this effect. The caster adds +4 to every ranged attack roll for the duration. Additionally, the caster can attempt to fire at someone that cannot see (but they know are there), such as around a corner, at a penalty of -4 to hit.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single gun;bounce off walls
Bullets;5;Confetti Bullets;1 round;If the target of this spell fails the resistance check, any gun with bullets they attempt to fire for the duration fires only confetti. The confetti causes no damage but can liven up parties. ;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 80 + 20/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;remove bullets
Bullets;6;Armor Piercing Rounds;1 round;The bullets enchanted with this spell more easily go through armor. Attacks with the enchanted weapon ignore armor DVs.;none;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single gun;go through armor
Bullets;7;Incendiary Rounds;1 round;The bullets enchanted with this spell cause an additional 2d6 points of fire damage (bonus) and can cause dry, flammable materials to catch on fire.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single gun;add fire damage
Bullets;8;Tranquilizer;1 round;The bullets enchanted with this spell cause no damage, but anyone that would normally be damaged by them must make a resistance check of 4 dice against HEA to fall asleep for 30 minutes. They can reattempt the resistance check if damaged or otherwise disturbed.;none;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single gun;tranquilizer darts
Bullets;9;Killer Caliber;1 round;The linear weapon enchanted with this spell has its bullets slightly increase in caliber upon firing. This results in damage from this weapon being increased by 1d6 (core) for the spell’s duration. ;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single gun;increase damage
Bullets;10;Corrosive Caliber;1 round;The bullets enchanted with this spell cause an additional 2d6 acid damage (bonus) and can burn through most materials. Each shot will burn through about an inch of iron in one minute. (See the PFC Game Master’s Guidebook for material resistances to acid.) ;none;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single gun;corrosive bullets
Bullets;11;Grenade Rounds;1 round;Every round, the first bullet fired from a weapon enchanted with this spell becomes a grenade that detonates on impact (ranged touch). The grenade causes 4d6 points of edged damage in a 30’ radius with the resistance check of four dice against HEA for half damage.;none;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single gun;boom stick
Bullets;12;B.F.G.;1 round;When this spell is cast, a GIANT gun appears in the caster’s hand for the duration. The gun can be fired once per round via a mechanical trigger. The gun shoots a 60 + 15/F’ long, 10’ wide beam that does 8d6 points of energy damage to anyone in its path.;6d6 vs AGI halves;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;10’ x (60 + 15/F’) line;big ass gun
Explosive Properties;1;Sanctify Explosive; 1 round;This spell allows Mishra to bless an explosive. This causes the grenade damage to bypass shields, both silver and magical. The explosive must be of approved Mishra explosives. This is mainly for use later in the group, and to make explosives valid targets for the previous two groups. ; 2d6 vs PWR negates; touch; permanent; single explosive; bless explosive
Explosive Properties;2;Lesser Blast Shield;1 round;The target of this spell lowers the damage taken by all explosives by 3 points and lowers any resistance check from explosives by one die.;3d6 vs WIL negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single target;resist explosives
Explosive Properties;3;Detect Explosive;1 round;The spell allows the caster to see explosives in the area of effect. All devices designed to explode will show up with red outlines in the target’s sight.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;LOS 60’;see explosives
Explosive Properties;4;Explosive Exclusion;reaction;The caster activates this spell when a grenade they throw would hit an ally, including themself. When activated, the caster may exclude a single target from the effect and damage of a single explosion.;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;exclude target
Explosive Properties;5;Explosive Exchange;1 round;This spell can be cast on an explosive that has been blessed with Sanctify Explosive. The explosive can be modified to become any other type of Mishra approved explosive.;none;touch;instantaneous;single explosive;changes explosive
Explosive Properties;6;Trace Trajectory;1 round;This spell is cast after someone nearby is hit with a targeted source, such as a bullet, arrow, or spell. It will highlight a path back to the destination for the spell’s duration. The destination will not be the person that used it, but the location where it was used. ;none;LOS 60’;10 + 5/F minutes;special;see path
Explosive Properties;7;Greater Blast Shield;1 round;The target of this spell lowers the damage taken by all explosives by 6 points and lowers any resistance check from explosives by two dice. ;3d6 vs WIL negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single target;resist explosives
Explosive Properties;8;Detect Structural Vulnerabilities;2 rounds;When this spell is cast, the caster can see structural instabilities in red and stabilities in blue. Because of this, they can choose to either blow up a building or blow a hole in a wall without causing serious damage. This results in two dice off any check to place explosives on a structure. ;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;LOS 60’;show weaknesses
Explosive Properties;9;Master Key;2 rounds;This spell allows the caster to shoot a lock in order to unlock a door. The caster gets two dice off any Opening Locks check required as long as the lock can be damaged/open with a bullet. ;none;touch;instantaneous;single lock;“unlock” door
Explosive Properties;10;Mass Blast Shield;2 rounds;The targets of this spell lower the damage taken by all explosives by 6 points and lower any resistance check from explosives by two dice.;4d6 vs WIL negates;multitouch;2 + 1/F hours;touched targets;resist explosives
Explosive Properties;11;Bubble Shield;2 rounds;This spell creates a 50’ bubble shield around the target. All explosives, bullets, and missiles shot or thrown from outside of the shield will bounce off of it and miss. The shield can be walked through from either side. The shield does not impact anything originating from inside the shield. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 100’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;bubble shield
Explosive Properties;12;Explosive Healing;1 round;For the duration of this spell, all explosives that hit the target that would normally cause damage instead heal the target for that amount of DP instead. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single target;heal from explosives
Sound;1;Silencer; 1 round;For the duration of the spell, any noise made by the targeted item is suppressed.; 2d6 vs PWR negates; touch; 1 +1/F minutes; single item; silence sounds
Sound;2;Amplify;1 round;For the duration of the spell, any noise made by the targeted item is increased by up to three times. This spell will never cause an item to do more damage.;3d6 vs PWR negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single item;make louder
Sound;3;Snap;1 round;The caster snaps their fingers emitting a sound that harms an enemy. The sonic blast results in 2d6 points of pain damage to the target.;3d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 25’;instantaneous;single target;sonic pulse
Sound;4;Lesser Resonate;1 round;This spell allows the caster to determine the thickness of a wall or door that they are touching when the spell is cast. If the wall or door is thicker than two feet, the caster only gets a rough estimate. This spell also allows the caster to detect structural vulnerabilities on the wall or door itself within 4’ of the caster. ;2d6 vs PWR negates;touch;instantaneous;single wall/door;determine thickness
Sound;5;Background FX;1 round;This spell creates very loud, explosive sound effects as background noise for the spell’s duration. Anyone hearing these noises must make the resistance check to be able to hear anything else. ;5d6 vs PER negates;LOS 250’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;create noise
Sound;6;Oi!;1 round;This spell requires no hand movements and simply requires the caster to shout “Oi!” as loudly as he can. Any creature that fails the resistance check loses their next round of action as they look at the caster. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;caster;instantaneous;clear hearing;distract creatures
Sound;7;Booming Voice;1 round;The caster casts this spell by yelling loudly. Those in a 30’ x 10’ cone ahead of the caster must make the resistance check or become partially deafened. For the next 3d6 minutes, they must add two dice to all hearing based attribute checks. Enhanced Hearing increases the resistance check by one die. ;4d6 vs HEA negates*;caster;instantaneous;30’ x 10’ cone;burp loudly
Sound;8;Clap;1 round;The caster claps their hands together, sending a sonic wave of force out in a cone in front of them. Anyone in the area of effect suffers 6d6 points of pain damage.;4d6 vs HEA halves;caster;instantaneous;30’ x 30’ cone;sound wave
Sound;9;Read Vibrations;1 round;The caster targets an object with this spell and can interpret the vibrations coming from that object. This allows the caster to hear sounds being made within a 10’ radius of the targeted object.;3d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 250’;1 + 1/F minutes;single object;listen in
Sound;10;Mishra’s Earmuffs;2 rounds;This spell provides the target with a pair of blessed earmuffs that will block out certain sounds more effectively. The target receives 3 points off damage from sound based effects (such as pain damage from this group) as well as one die off resistance check from any sound based magic. This includes all spells that are targeted by hearing.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single target;buff hearing
Sound;11;Greater Resonate;2 rounds;This spell allows the caster’s voice to cause structures to resonate at the resonant frequency. Structures in the area take 5d6 points of damage per round for the spell’s duration or until they collapse. ;3d6 vs PWR negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;25’ radius;destroy structures
Sound;12;Supersonic;2 rounds;This spell allows the caster to shout so loudly that the targets take 10d6 points of pain damage and become partially deafened (they suffer a one die penalty to all hearing based attribute checks). If they make the resistance check, they suffer half damage and are not deafened. In order to repair the deafened state, a target must have their ear fixed (for example, with Miracle Cure or Mend Senses). Enhanced hearing increases the resistance check by one die.;5d6 vs HEA halves*;caster;instantaneous;5’ x 120’ line;shout very loudly
