Underwater;1;Air Pocket;1 round;When the caster uses this spell, a small pocket of air forms around their head, allowing them to breathe normally for the spell’s duration. When the spell terminates, the pocket collapses. Only the caster can breathe from the air pocket. ;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;self;create pocket of air
Underwater;2;Water Sound;1 round;The caster adapts the target(s) ears to being submerged in water. For the duration, they gain Enhanced Hearing while completely submerged in water. They can hear and interpret underwater sounds more clearly. They can separate out various marine creature calls and noises, and can recognize the existence of waterfalls, currents, and large objects moving about them. ;willing target;multitouch;1 + 1/F minutes;1 + 1/F creatures;hear underwater
Underwater;3;Water Movement;2 rounds;The target(s) can move, jump, fight, or cast spells underwater as if they were on land. This only affects the targets, and not projectiles which they throw, so most ranged weapons are still hindered while submerged. The target(s) may freely change their depth in water while using this spell. This spell does not give the target(s) the ability to breathe underwater. ;willing target;multitouch;10 + 5/F minutes;1 + 1/F creatures;move freely
Underwater;4;Water Breathing;1 round;The target(s) of this spell can breathe underwater as if they were on land.;4d6 vs WIL negates;multitouch;2 + 1/F hours;1 + 1/F targets;breathe underwater
Underwater;5;Water Smell;2 rounds;The caster can detect the presence and type of any creature below water within a 200 foot radius. The caster must have smelled the creature before to know what it is. This spell may fail in strong currents (GM’s discretion). ;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;smell in water
Underwater;6;Speed Swim;2 rounds;The caster of this spell can move at a rate of 60 feet per round underwater. They also ignore any armor resist or move penalties while completely submerged in water.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;self;fast water movement
Underwater;7;Cold-Blooded;2 rounds;The target of this spell temporarily matches their body temperature to that of the surrounding water. The water feels comfortable to them, as long as it doesn’t freeze or boil. This grants 2 + 1/2F ranks of Resist Cold or Resist Fire while they are submerged within water.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single target;adapt to water temp
Underwater;8;Water Sense;1 round;The target(s) emits barely audible, high pitched sounds that reflect off the creatures and things around them while submerged in water. They can detect any object’s location and approximate shape for a distance of up to 60 + 15/F feet. This effectively grants them ranks of the Echolocation creature ability that only functions underwater.;willing target;multitouch;10 + 5/F minutes;1 + 1/F creatures;sonar
Underwater;9;Wave Ride;1 minute;The caster must be floating in a large body of water, on a sail board in the water, or in a skiff in the water to use this spell. When cast, they are propelled by a magical wave moving 60 + 10/F’ per round, even when there is no wind present.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;self;surf
Underwater;10;Inner Balance;2 rounds;The target(s) of this spell instantly acclimates to any water pressure. When the spell is cast, they are attuned to the water pressure at that time. This spell allows its targets to survive at much greater depths, and protects against effects such as nitrogen narcosis. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;multitouch;2 + 1/F hours;1 + 1/F creatures;resist pressure
Underwater;11;Water Way;1 minute;The caster recalls a place they have previously memorized and casts this spell while floating in a large body of water or on a ship in the water. If that location and their current location are connected by the same body of water, however distant, the caster or the caster’s vessel is pulled by water in the direction of the memorized location at 8 + 2/F miles per hour until it reaches the destination.;none;memlock;12 + 3/F hours;special*;carry towards location
Underwater;12;Sea ‘Port;2 rounds;The caster recalls a place they have previously memorized and casts this spell while submerged in water. If that location and their current location are both beneath water, this spell teleports the caster to the memorized location in a flurry of bubbles.;none;memlock;instantaneous;self;teleport in water
Sea Form;1–13;Sea Form;4 - 2/F rounds;The caster calls upon the power of nature to change their physique to one of a marine animal of the rate equal or below (rank of Sea Form used) x 5. Buying up ranks in this group covers the process of studying all manual marine creatures at and below the maximum allowed rate. This spell cannot be used to transform into another character race. The spell can function in two different ways.Full Transformation: The caster’s body fully transforms into a marine form. Their base attributes or mental facilities do not change, but all their creature abilities are replaced with creature abilities of the chosen marine animal. That includes their movement rates, Exceptional Attributes (only physical), natural attacks, natural armor without penalties, any resistances and susceptibilities, any sensory abilities, any racial abilities and bonuses. While in this form, the caster cannot use their regular weapons and make gestures required for spell casting. The caster may choose for their equipment to disappear during transformation or drop on the ground next to them. Spell casting is still possible with Verbal Cast (CS). The caster’s current and maximum DP does not change. This spell can be finessed to add 5 temporary DP per finesse while the caster is transformed. Partial Transformation: By fully finessing this spell, the caster commands the magic with much higher precision allowing them to turn only a portion of their body into one of the marine animal’s. They can replace one of the following with corresponding abilities of the animal:Movement rates and movement creature abilities such as Jumping or BurrowingPhysical (STR, HEA, AGI, COM) Exceptional AttributesNatural AttacksNatural Armor, including resulting penaltiesResistances and SusceptibilitiesSensory AbilitiesThe caster’s own abilities of the chosen category are fully replaced with ones from the creature. With multiple castings it is possible to replace more than one category of abilities to ones from the same or different creature.While in this form, the caster does not lose the ability to utilize their equipment or cast their spells.The caster’s current and maximum DP does not change. This spell can be finessed to add 5 temporary DP per finesse while the caster is transformed. ;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;change to animal
Aquatic Life;1;Fish Kind;1 round;The caster sees a blue glow around any marine creature. The strength of the glow indicates the general health and life force of the creature.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;LOS 300’;see marine creatures
Aquatic Life;2;Fish Call;4 rounds;Any marine creature within the area of effect that is willing or fails the resistance check, approaches the caster and must stay for the spell’s duration. If a creature under this effect is attacked by the caster or the caster’s allies, the effect ends for that creature.;4d6 vs WIL negates;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;250 + 50/F’ radius;call marine creatures
Aquatic Life;3;Fish Send;4 rounds;The target of this spell must be a non-intelligent marine creature. The caster recalls a location they have previously memorized and casts this spell. If the creature is willing or fails the resistance check, it must go to that location. The creature is released from the spell when it arrives.When fully finessed, the caster can record a short message (up to one minute) that is played back when the creature is released.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;special;single marine creature;send to location
Aquatic Life;4;Fish Heal;1 round;The touched marine creature gains (3 + 1/2F)d6 damage points back.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;instantaneous;single marine creature;heal
Aquatic Life;5;Fish Find;4 rounds;The caster visualizes an object for which they are searching. Then they get the attention of a marine creature and cast this spell. If the creature knows the location, it leads the caster to the object. When fully finessed, the creature brings the object to the caster instead if the creature is capable of carrying the object.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;single marine creature;creature finds object
Aquatic Life;6;Fish Sing;1 round;The caster can speak and be understood by any marine creature within hearing. Simple commands can be communicated to non-intelligent creatures and two-way communication is possible with intelligent marine creatures.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;hearing;speak to animal
Aquatic Life;7;Fish Ride;4 rounds;After getting a marine creature’s attention, and it is willing or fails the resistance check, the spell causes the creature to allow the caster to ride it for the duration. The spell grants the caster the ability required to ride the creature at full speed, but maneuvers beyond simple riding require a skill check as normal. The creature needs to be big enough and capable of hauling the caster for this spell to be effective.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;2 + 1/F hours;single marine creature;hitch a ride
Aquatic Life;8;Fish Protector;4 rounds;After getting a marine creature’s attention, the spell causes the creature to protect the caster if it is willing or fails the resistance check. The creature will attack anybody that is hostile to the caster and will follow the caster’s simple commands to the best of its ability.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;2 + 1/F hours;single marine creature;animal guardian
Aquatic Life;9;Fish Eyes;4 rounds;Cast on an attentive marine creature that is willing or fails the resistance check, the caster is empowered to perceive the world through all of the creature’s senses. This includes vision, smell, taste, hearing and any other senses the creature possesses.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;single marine creature;sense through creature
Aquatic Life;10;Fish Tale;4 rounds;After getting a marine creature’s attention and casting this spell, if the creature is willing or fails the resistance check, the caster gets a vision of one event in which they are interested if the creature witnessed the event in question.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;special;single marine creature;see creature’s memory
Aquatic Life;11;Fish Fury;2 rounds;Casting this spell and pointing toward the target will cause all willing marine creatures in the area of effect, and those that fail the resistance check, to attack the target for the duration of the spell. If the creature is willing, they also get a +3 bonus on their attack rolls and damage.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;60 + 15/F’ radius;enrage marine creatures
Aquatic Life;12;Fish Save;reaction;As a reaction, the caster channels the power of nature to heal a marine creature that is about to fall unconscious or die as a result of DP loss. The targeted creature gains 6d6 damage points.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single creature;save animal
HydroMorph;1;Ice Shape;1 round;The caster cups water in their hands and casts this spell while visualizing a shape. The water forms to that shape, then freezes. It is then normal ice, but in the shape the caster desires. It will melt eventually, depending on the ambient air temperature, and if broken it melts immediately. ;none;touch;instantaneous;handful of water;create ice object
HydroMorph;2;Ice Trident;1 round;The caster launches a trident of ice from a nearby water source (a waterskin can suffice). This deals 2d6 cold damage, and if the target is Drenched freezes the target, Stunning them. A frozen target can reattempt the resist check at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success.;4d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single creature;ice attack
HydroMorph;3;Water Stream;1 round;The caster points in a direction, and a strong stream of water spouts from their hand, Drenching anything in its path and dealing 1d6 water damage. This spell can be active multiple times, once per hand. ;4d6 vs AGI negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;4’ x 10’ line;drench things in water
HydroMorph;4;Ice Weapon;1 round;The caster cups water in their hands and casts this spell while visualizing a melee combat weapon. The water forms to that shape, then freezes. This weapon deals cold damage instead of its normal damage, but rolls on the corresponding critical hit chart of the original weapon. With two finesses, the weapon is enchanted to be +1, and with four finesses, the weapon is enchanted to be +2.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minute;handful of water;create ice weapon
HydroMorph;5;Water Skin;2 rounds;Casting this spell while laying hands over a burn coats the injury with a cool layer of water that temporarily alleviates the pain and prevents further damage. The target is instantaneously healed 3d6 DP up to their maximum DP. Additionally, for the duration, the target gains 1 rank of Resist Fire.;willing target;multitouch;2 + 1/F hours;1 + 1/2F targets;alleviate burns
HydroMorph;6;Water Jet;1 round;The caster points in a direction, and a very strong stream of water spouts from his hand, Drenching anything in its path. Any creature or person hit by the stream who fails the resistance check takes 3d6 water damage, is forced backward ten feet and knocked prone. This spell can be active multiple times, once per hand. ;4d6 vs STR negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;5’ x (30 + 10/F’) line;knock down
HydroMorph;7;Icicle Swarm;1 round;The caster is surrounded by 6 + 2/F floating shards of solid ice. Icicles automatically hit, at caster’s discretion, anything within the spell's area of effect. A creature hit by an icicle takes 1d6 cold damage. Any single creature can only be hit with a single icicle per round. When fully finessed, 2 additional icicles are summoned every round for the duration.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;60 + 15/F’ radius;floating ice spikes
HydroMorph;8;Rolling Waves;1 round;The caster causes the ground to shift and sway like the deck of a ship in the area of effect. Creatures within the area must make the resistance check or gain  rank of Inferior AGI while in the area, and have their movement halved. Creatures that succeed at the resistance check are unaffected. Any creature that enters the area for the first time on their turn, or starts their turn in the area must reattempt the resist check. Any free standing objects in the area may roll and shift around.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minute;30 + 10/F’ radius;deck of a ship
HydroMorph;9;Hail Jet;1 round;The caster points in a direction, and a very strong stream of frozen hail spouts from their hand, hitting anything in its path. Any creature or person hit by the stream who fails the resistance check suffers 4d6 cold damage, and if the target is Drenched freezes the target, Stunning them. A frozen target can reattempt the resist check at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. This spell can be active multiple times, once per hand. ;4d6 vs AGI negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;5’ x (30 + 10/F)’ line;stream of hail
HydroMorph;10;Diamond Dust;1 round;The caster cups water in their hands and casts this spell, which creates a light non-obscuring fog of tiny floating ice crystals in the air as the air temperature drops below freezing. For the duration, any spell cast in the area of Diamond Dust that deals water damage deals cold damage instead, and will pierce 1 + 1/2F ranks of Resist Cold.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;30 + 10/F’ radius;cloud of ice crystals
HydroMorph;11;Water Guard;2 rounds;The target of this spell must be partially immersed in water at the time of the casting. The water forms a two inch thick layer around the target that is as effective as an iron full plate. This changes the target’s armor DVs for the duration. The target can breathe normally through the water armor, and is considered Drenched for the duration of the spell. With two finesses, the armor conveys the benefits of steel full plate. With four finesses, the armor conveys the benefits of adamantite full plate. ;5d6 vs PWR negates;touch;1 + 1/F minute;single target;create water armor
HydroMorph;12;Steam Jet;1 round;The caster points in a direction, and a very strong stream of thick steam spouts from their hand, hitting anything in its path. Any creature or person hit by the steam who fails the resistance check is scalded for 6d6 fire/heat damage, and is then considered Drenched. This spell can be active multiple times, once per hand.;5d6 vs AGI halves;caster;2 + 1/F rounds;5’ x (60 + 15/F)’ line;stream of steam
Inexorable Tide;1;Enchant Living Water;10 minutes;The caster enchants water skins to empower it with divine energy. Water enchanted in this way can be used as a material component to cast later spells in this group. One waterskin will provide enough Living Water to last the entire day. Only one waterskin can be enchanted at a time.;none;touch;1 day;one waterskin;enchant water
Inexorable Tide;2;Water Strike;1 round;The caster summons a fist of water from their waterskin of Living Water, utilizing half of the waterskin for casting. The fist flies at the target dealing 2d6 water damage and Drenching the target. The target additionally must make a 4d6 vs STR resist check or be knocked prone. The water then returns to the waterskin.;4d6 vs STR*;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single target;punch of water
Inexorable Tide;3;Compressed Defense;1 round;The user compresses living water into a solid armor on the target’s skin. This grants 2 + 1/F to all of the target’s magic defense values. This ability empties half of a waterskin of Living Water for the duration.;willing target;touch;1 + 1/F minute;single target;defensive water
Inexorable Tide;4;Ice Shield;1 round;This spell allows the caster to create a shield out of ice. It grants defense values of a standard iron shield. With two finesses, it functions as a steel shield, or with four finesses an adamantite shield. This ability empties half of a waterskin of Living Water for the duration.;willing target;LOS 20 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minute;single target;create shield
Inexorable Tide;5;Encapsulate;2 rounds;Once cast, the waterskin of Living Water empties by half. The target must make a 4d6 vs AGI resist check or is surrounded by a ball of ice, and must either succeed at an attribute check of 4d6 vs STR, or deal 25 + 15/F points of damage to the ice ball. This ball is completely immune to cold damage, but it takes double damage from fire.;special*;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;capture target
Inexorable Tide;6;Mist Swim;special*;This spell is cast during the casting time of Sea Form, and allows the caster to summon a mist of Living Water around them, emptying the entire waterskin of Living Water, to allow a Sea Form  to be used on land. ;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;swim in mist
Inexorable Tide;7;Steam Form;1 round;This spell takes the Living Water and spreads it over the body of the caster. This turns the caster into a form of steam. This makes the caster Immaterial, and the caster is considered Drenched for the duration. The steam form requires an attribute check of 5 dice against PER to see. This empties the waterskin of Living Water for the duration.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;become hot air
Inexorable Tide;8;Water Pulse;1 round;The caster summons three bolts of water from their waterskin of Living Water, utilizing half of the waterskin for casting. The caster then fires them at up to 3 + 1/2F targets within range. Each bolt deals 2d6 of water damage and Drenches the target. The target must make a 5d6 vs STR check or be pushed 10’ in a direction of the caster’s choice.;5d6 vs STR*;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;3 + 1/2F targets;blast with water
Inexorable Tide;9;Waterfall;1 round;The caster spreads the remaining Living Water in their waterskin into a mist that suffuses the air or water around them. A full waterskin will spread to a 40’ radius, while half a waterskin will spread to a 30’ radius. All in the radius will experience a sudden drop, and must make the resist check or take 6d6 water damage, and if failed be Drenched and knocked prone. If this spell is cast underwater, the damage is instead 10d6 water damage, and if failed, targets are Dazed for 1 round.;5d6 vs STR halves;caster;instantaneous;special*;sudden drop
Inexorable Tide;10;Geyser;1 round;The caster launches the remaining Living Water in their waterskin onto the ground beneath the target, where it bubbles and forms a high-pressure geyser under the target. The target must make a 5d6 vs AGI resist check or take 6d6 water damage and be launched into the air. A full waterskin will launch the target 40’ into the air, and a half-full waterskin will launch the target 20’ into the air. They may take falling damage from hitting the ground after being launched (1d6 blunt damage for every 10’ fallen). In addition, the target is Stunned for 1 round.;5d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single target;launch into air
Inexorable Tide;11;Rusted Joints;2 rounds;The caster spreads the remaining Living Water in their waterskin into a mist that suffuses the air or water around them. A full waterskin will spread to a 40’ radius, while half a waterskin will spread to a 30’ radius. For the duration, rust grows over any iron, steel, or adamantite armor worn in the area, imposing the wearers of the armor with one rank of Inferior AGI and one rank of Inferior STR and increasing the armor’s movement penalty to -30’. Magical armor must make a 3d6 vs PWR to negate this effect. This empties the waterskin of Living Water for the duration.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;special*;rust armor
Inexorable Tide;12;Living Water Font;1 round;The caster empowers their waterskin of Living Water for a brief period of time, making it magically remain full despite casting spells from this group. For the duration, the caster’s waterskin of Living Water is always considered full for the purposes of spell casting.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;enchanted waterskin;unlimited living water
Maelstroms;1;Sunstorm Shawl;1 round;The caster magically generates a small storm cloud and spins the cloud into a personal garment; it can only be worn by the caster, dissolves away if worn by anything else, holds 1 + 1/F charges, and a charge may be spent to resolve a spellcast as if the caster were within direct sunlight or submerged in water or to maintain a spell that requires it for one round when these conditions are no longer met.;none;caster;6 + 2/F hours;self;cloaks in storm
Maelstroms;2;Haar;1 round;The caster summons a cold sea fog (haar) around themselves, creating a thick cloud of fog that surrounds them for 20 + 5/F’ in all directions. The fog moves with the caster, remaining centered on them and making its area obscured. The caster and each creature within 5 feet of the caster instead treat the area as in direct sunlight, and are not visually impaired by it. This haar spreads around corners, and cannot be dispersed unless the caster chooses to end this effect, or it is Revoked.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minute;20 + 5/F’ radius;cold sea fog
Maelstroms;3;Safecloud;1 round;The caster summons a light, pleasant mist in the target area. The caster may choose to exclude any creatures of their choice in the area from area-of-effect spells or effects. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;none;LOS 60 + 20/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;30 + 10/F’ radius;exclude allies
Maelstroms;4;Binding Storm;1 round;The caster summons a small squall that engulfs the target. If the target fails the resist check, they are Grappled by the spell, and are considered submerged in water. The Grappled target can attempt to break the grapple, and the storm has an effective 12 STR to keep the grapple. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;4d6 vs STR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;2 + 1/F rounds;single target;bind with storm
Maelstroms;5;Solar Cyclone;1 round;The caster summons a swirling cyclone of dawn-painted clouds, brimming with light. Any creature that enters the cyclone or starts its turn in the cyclone must make the resist check to halve 4d6 light damage. Regardless of a success or failure, any creature within the cyclone’s area of effect is considered to be in direct sunlight. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;storm of light
Maelstroms;6;Maelstrom Rupture;1 round;The caster lobs a shimmering orb of divine energy at the target, where it erupts into a blinding blast of light and rain, dealing 6d6 water or light damage (caster’s choice) to all in the area. If a creature fails the resist check, they are Blinded and Drenched. A Blinded creature can reattempt the resist check at the end of each of its rounds to negate the Blinded status effect on itself. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;Instantaneous;20 + 5’/F radius;radiant energy orb
Maelstroms;7;Sun Lightning;1 round;The caster chooses up to 3 + 1/2F targets within the range. These targets are brimmed with golden light, before bolts of divine lightning fall upon them from the heavens. Each target must make the resist check to halve 6d6 light damage. Additionally, if they fail the resist check, the target is still surrounded by the golden aura, and is considered in direct sunlight for the next minute. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;5d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous*;up to 3 + 1/2F creatures;radiant lightning
Maelstroms;8;Sunstorm Aura;1 minute;The caster touches 1 + 1/F willing creatures during the casting of this spell, and they are haloed by golden clouds. For the duration, as long as these targets remain within 120 + 30/F’ of the caster, they are considered within direct sunlight and submerged in water (but not Drenched) for the purposes of spellcasting.;willing target;multitouch;6 + 2/F hours;1 + 1/F targets;sunlight and water
Maelstroms;9;Akvolumotravo;1 round;The caster points in a direction, and a stream of radiant light and water  spouts from their hand, hitting anything in its path. Any creature hit by the sunshower who fails the resistance check takes 8d6 water or light damage (caster’s choice), and is then considered Drenched. This spell can be active multiple times, once per hand. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;5d6 vs AGI negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;5’ x (30 + 10/F)’ line;beams of sunshowers
Maelstroms;10;Maelstrom Blade;1 round;The caster infuses a weapon with water and light, which confers the following effects:The weapon deals +2d6 damage, and the caster may convert all damage the weapon would deal to either water damage or light damage, piercing 1 rank of relevant Resist.Any of the spell effects applied from a casting of Maelstrom Blade end if anyone other than the caster wields the weapon targeted by the spell. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;none;touch;6 + 2/F hours;single weapon;divine enchantment
Maelstroms;11;Storm of Dawn;2 rounds;The caster summons a storm of light and rain. Everything within the radius of the storm is Drenched and in direct sunlight. Each round of the spell’s duration, as a free action, the caster can summon two bolts of Sun Lightning, targeting creatures within the storm’s area. The targets must make the resist check to halve 6d6 light damage. Additionally, if they fail the resist check, the target is still surrounded by the golden aura, and is considered in direct sunlight for the next minute, even if they leave the storm’s radius. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;5d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;2 + 1/F rounds;60 + 15/F’ radius;summon sunstorm
Maelstroms;12;Envoy of Two Gods;1 round;The caster channels the essence of Neptune and Ra, becoming a vessel for their holy ordinance. Choose up to 2 + 1/2F effects that are applied to the caster for the duration:Rank 2 Light Aura or Water AuraPierce up to 2 ranks of Resist Light when dealing light damagePierce up to 2 ranks of Resist Water when dealing water damageThe caster emits an aura for 60 feet of bright, direct sunlight, and 60 feet of dim lighting beyond thatWhen the caster deals light damage, they heal DP equal to half damage dealtAll spell effects that deal water damage also Drench their targets, regardless of a successful resist checkThe caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minute;self;divine empowerment
