Love;1;Concern;2 rounds;While under this spell, any time the target enters combat, the caster hears an appropriate danger alert, no matter the distance separating them.;willing target;touch;1 + 1/F weeks;single target;danger alert
Love;2;Devote;2 rounds;The caster and the target share awareness of each other’s existence and emotions. They can tell roughly how far away and in what direction the other is. They will know if either is in danger, but not what type. Additionally, a target under the Devote spell counts as touched by the caster for the purposes of casting other Love spells as long as they are within LOS 120’.;willing target;touch;1 + 1/F days;single target;awareness link
Love;3;Share Burden;1 round;For the duration, any damage the target takes is halved (rounding up). The caster then takes the other half (rounding down) of damage. If either the caster or target is knocked unconscious or killed, this spell ends early. If this spell is fully finessed, the target additionally gains 1 point of damage reduction.;willing target;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;share damage
Love;4;Soothe;2 rounds;This spell calms the fears, forebodings, and frights of the target, allowing them to act rationally during the spell. The target is cured of any Frightening effect. If the fear is magical, they may instantaneously reattempt the resist check at 1 less die. For the duration of the spell, the target has 1 rank of Resist Fear (this ability works like Resist Charm but only for effects that inflict the Frightened condition).;willing target;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single target;alleviate fears
Love;5;Attachment;2 rounds;The caster and the target share a temporary DP pool for the duration of this spell. Both the target and caster have a shimmering green shield around them, which has a total of 20 + 5/F DP. ;willing target;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;share DP shield
Love;6;Venerate;2 rounds;Whenever the caster helps or assists the target with an attribute or skill check during the spell’s duration, the target can take 2 dice off the check instead of one.;willing target;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single target;support target
Love;7;Embrace;2 rounds;For the duration, any damage the target takes is taken instead by the caster. If either the caster or target is knocked unconscious or killed, this spell ends early. If this spell is finessed twice, any instance of transferred damage via this spell to the caster is reduced by 1 point. If this spell is fully finessed, this damage reduction is increased to 2 points.;willing target;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;take all damage
Love;8;Involvement;1 round;The caster can transfer any number of units or DP to the target of this spell. This spell can reduce the caster to unconsciousness if used carelessly.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single target;transfer units and DP
Love;9;Idolize;2 rounds;The caster grants divine favor for the target, granting a mote of luck in all that they do. The target adjusts all of their rolls by 1 + 1/2F points in their favor.;willing target;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;divine favor
Love;10;Forfeit;2 rounds;This spell removes the traces of love, compassion, and sympathy from the target for the duration. They become guarded against feelings of love, and take two dice off of any resist check that would play on emotions of love.;willing target;touch;1 + 1/F weeks;single target;forfeit compassion
Love;11;Passion;2 rounds;The caster and the target share all senses and thoughts for the duration of this spell, regardless of the distance which may separate them after the link is established. ;willing target;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;strong link
Love;12;Total Devotion;1 minute;The caster and the target form a permanent (until dropped or Revoked) emotional bond with each other similar to the Devote spell. They can always tell roughly how far away and in what direction the other is, will know each other’s dominant emotion, and will know if the other is in danger. In addition, anytime they are within LOS of each other, they may transfer DP and spell units (of any type) as a free action and may also send thoughts and images to each other mentally. A caster can only have one Total Devotion bond active at any time.;willing target;touch;permanent;single creature;permanent link
Love;13;Ultimate Gift;1 minute;The spell brings the target back to life. Refer to Appendix C: Spell Clarifications for general resurrection mechanics.This spell will not work on anyone, the priest casting the spell must have had some sort of emotional bond to the dead person which could have been in the form of spells in this group (such as Devote) or they could have simply been good friends with the dead target.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single dead target;resurrect 
Hate;1;Spurn;1 round;The target who fails the resistance check is thrown backward 20 feet and pushed to the ground prone.;4d6 vs STR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single target;pushes back
Hate;2;Shun;1 round;The dark force of the caster’s anger forms a tangible shell about the target, making them appear loathsome and disgusting. Strangers will avoid the target, and even their friends will shy away from them. For the duration, the target adds one extra die to any COM based skill check.;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;make repulsive
Hate;3;Disparage;1 round;The caster invokes this spell and speaks a skill name. If the named skill is a non-combat skill, the target has their ranks in that skill reduced to zero. If the skill is a combat skill, their ranks in that skill are reduced to 4.;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;6 + 2/F hours;single target;forget skill
Hate;4;Scunner;1 round;The target of this spell is wracked by an intense pain, causing it to suffer 4d6 pain damage.;4d6 vs WIL halves;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single target;cause pain
Hate;5;Loathing;1 round;The caster creates an overpowering loathing, in the target’s mind, to the place where they are. If the target fails the resistance check, they become Frightened of their current location and leave the 60 + 15/F’ radius of their current location immediately by the fastest possible means. They cannot return until the spell has ended. ;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;single target;target leaves
Hate;6;Revenge;2 rounds;Anyone causing the target any damage during this spell’s duration suffers 4d6 pain damage. This spell will only trigger once per person per round, multiple damage sources from the same person will only cause this spell to trigger once. The source of the damage in the case of spell is the person that was considered the caster of the spell effect.;4d6 vs PWR negates;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single target;cause pain and damage
Hate;7;Disgust;1 round;The target of this spell drops to their knees and begins retching. They are Stunned for the duration of the spell, and reattempt the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending the spell early on a success.;4d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;great discomfort
Hate;8;Denounce;2 rounds;All within hearing of the caster who fails the resistance check believes the slander and defamation the caster says about a specific person (chosen by the caster when this spell is cast). They do not automatically take action, they just believe what the caster says about the person is true. After the spell ends, they can be shown evidence against the caster’s lies and change their mind.;5d6 vs CSE negates;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;hearing;believe lies
Hate;9;Negate;1 reaction*;The priest uses this spell in reaction to a target beginning an action. If the target fails the resistance check, they will decide not to do what they started for the round. They then choose a different action, target, etc.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single target;negate action
Hate;10;Malevolence;1 round;This spell requires no words or speech to cast. The caster simply looks at their target and focuses their anger. If the target fails the resistance check, they suffer 8d6 pain damage, or half as much on a success. If looks could kill…;5d6 vs WIL halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;hurts target
Hate;11;Reject;1 round;The caster projects their hate into a target with full force. If the target fails the resistance check, they go into an uncontrollable rage, and while Enraged, attacks the closest creature to themself, be it friend or foe. The target can reattempt the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending the spell early on a success.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;enrage
Hate;12;Vex;2 rounds;This spell requires no words or speech to cast. The caster must specify a vexation affecting to-hit rolls, damage taken. damage dealt, a specific attribute check, skill checks of a specific attribute, resistance checks of a specific attribute, or critical hits. If the target fails the resistance check, the caster’s Vex stays in effect as long as the spell is active, and causes the target to modify rolls by 3 + 1/2F against the target’s favor. ;6d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;2 + 1/F hours;single target;vexation
Courage;1;Alert;1 round;The caster may subtract one die from any check against their PER attribute for the duration of this spell. ;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;raises awareness
Courage;2;Bold;1 round;The target is encouraged for the duration, and has more confidence in their task. For the next check they make during the duration, they roll an additional d6 and drop the highest result.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;gives courage
Courage;3;Audacious;1 round;The caster casts this spell while performing some shocking, audacious, or surprising action. At the GM’s discretion, anyone within 60 + 15/F’ of the caster not expecting this is Dazed for one round, gaping in shock at the caster’s actions. Any combative actions against the affected targets will overcome the shock induced from this spell allowing the targets to act normally, but it can serve as a great distraction.;none;caster;1 round;self, 60 + 15/F’ radius;shocks viewers
Courage;4;Resolute;1 round;The caster gains the Mental Stubbornness creature ability for the duration. If the caster already has the Mental Stubbornness creature ability, they instead become immune to the Unconsciousness status effect as long as they have at least 1 DP.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;remain conscious
Courage;5;Stalwart;1 round;The target can use the higher of their or the caster’s STR, combat modifier, and Weapon (W) and Maneuver (M) skills for the duration of the spell. Passive (P) and Activated (A) skills are not shared.Only one instance of this spell can be active on a target or maintained by the caster at a time, i.e. the caster cannot cast Stalwart on two targets, and any one target cannot benefit from Stalwart cast by two different casters.;4d6 vs PWR negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;fight as caster
Courage;6;Daring;special*;The caster uses this spell in combination with a non-combat action. If a skill check is involved, it is at one die less than normal. If the check succeeds, the spell is complete. If the check fails, the caster suffers twice the penalty for failure because he can take no protective measures while emoting confidence. The penalty depends on the circumstances and is up to GMs discretion. ;none;caster;special*;self;raises stakes
Courage;7;Dashing;1 round;The caster designates a particular enemy and casts this spell. For its duration, the touched targets of this spell can travel at double their normal movement rate, as long as they are charging straight at the designated enemy.;4d6 vs PWR negates;multitouch;1 + 1/F minutes;1 + 1/F creatures;speeds charge
Courage;8;Intrepid;2 rounds;The target is cured of any Frightening effect. If the fear is magical,  they may instantaneously reattempt the resist check at 2 less dice. For the duration of the spell, the target has 2 ranks of Resist Fear (this ability works like Resist Charm but only for effects that inflict the Frightened condition).;5d6 vs WIL negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;make fearless
Courage;9;Foolhardy;special*;The caster uses this spell in combination with a simple weapon attack. If they hit, it is considered a critical hit. If they miss, the magic and their own confidence backfire, causing them to suffer a critical hit with 1d6 of the weapon’s damage before the critical result is applied.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;force critical hit
Courage;10;Reckless;1 round;For the duration of this spell, the caster gains extra attack with their weapon. The caster may roll weapon skill and use an advanced option for the extra attack, but they cannot roll maneuver skills or use any advanced options and spells that would give them additional extra attacks. In addition, the caster does not get the defense values from their weapon and shield for the spell’s duration.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;self;double attack speed
Courage;11;Forward;2 rounds;For the duration of this spell, the targets gain extra attack with their weapon. The targets may roll weapon skill and use an advanced option for the extra attack, but they cannot roll maneuver skills or use any advanced options and spells that would give them additional extra attacks. In addition, the targets do not get the defense values from their weapon and shield for the spell’s duration.;4d6 vs PWR negates;multitouch;4 + 2/F rounds;2 + 1/F creatures;double attack speed
Courage;12;Indomitable;1 minute;The caster is immune to pain damage, takes 2 dice off  any WIL resist checks, and will not break under torture or interrogation for the duration of this spell. ;none;caster;6 + 2/F hours;self;resist torture
Fear;1;Tremor;1 round;If the target fails the resistance check, they shake in fear uncontrollably for one round, dropping anything they are carrying. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;instantaneous;single target;shakes target
Fear;2;Revulsion;2 rounds;The caster names a person while casting the spell. If the target fails the resistance check, he has an extreme fear for the named person for the duration of the spell. If they see the person within the spell’s duration, they become Frightened of them. While Frightened, they can reattempt the resist check once they are out of sight of the named person, ending the effect on a success.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;6 + 2/F hours;single target;revolution of person
Fear;3;Bugbear;1 round;If the target fails the resistance check, they see the caster as the creature or monster for whom they hold the most fear, and they become Frightened of the caster. They may reattempt the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending this spell on a success.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;scare target
Fear;4;Fright;1 round;If the target fails the resistance check, they faint from fright and become Unconscious. They will awaken when the duration expires, or if they take any damage.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;single target;target feints
Fear;5;Aversion;2 rounds;The caster names an object while casting the spell. If the target fails the resistance check, they have an extreme dislike for the named object for the duration of the spell. If they see the object within the spell’s duration, they become Frightened of it. While Frightened, they can reattempt the resist check once they are out of sight of the named object, ending the effect on a success.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;6 + 2/F hours;single target;revulsion of object
Fear;6;Pusillanimous;1 round;If the target fails the resistance check, they lose all vestiges of courage for the duration of the spell. They add a die to any resist check that inflicts the Frightened status effect.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;steals courage
Fear;7;Panic;2 rounds;Anyone caught in this spell who fails the resistance check will become Frightened, panic, drop their weapons, and run away from the caster. They regain control of themselves after the spell ends. They may reattempt the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect early on a success.;5d6 vs WIL negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;10’ x 30’ cone;panics targets
Fear;8;Anxiety;2 rounds;The target becomes anxious and uncertain of their actions. The target then cannot benefit from Quickness creature ability or spells that cause the target to take their turn earlier, and for duration, the target acts after all other creatures act.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;fear of person
Fear;9;Foreboding;4 rounds;If the target fails the resistance check, they fear and believe an event the caster names will come to pass. They will want to act to stop it, at any cost short of their own life.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F weeks;single target;plants fear
Fear;10;Terror;2 rounds;Anyone caught in this spell who fails the resistance check will faint in abject terror, falling Unconscious. They will awaken when the spell ends, or if they take any damage.;5d6 vs WIL negates;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;10’ x 40’ cone;feint in terror
Fear;11;Phobia;2 rounds;The caster names a specific phobia while casting this spell. If the target fails the resistance check, they gain the phobia for the duration of the spell. The specific mechanical effects of this phobia are determined by the GM. There could be a WIL resist check to enter areas associated with the phobia, or perhaps the affected target has a disadvantage on rolls while in the presence of objects or phenomena associated with the phobia.;6d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F weeks;single target;irrational fear
Fear;12;Perturbation;1 minute;The unfortunate target of this spell who fails the resistance check will slowly have their memories altered and changed, so that they begin doubting their own mind and fall into a crippling fear. The specific mechanical effects of this spell are determined by the GM. Some will fall into madness, and become unable to go about their life.;6d6 vs PWR negates;touch;permanent;single target;causes crippling fear
Disinterest;1;Boredom;1 round;If the target of this spell fails the resistance check, they will become bored with the task they are currently performing. This may have little effect on the target, if they feel duty bound or have other reasons for executing their current task. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;2 + 1/F hours;single target;make target bored
Disinterest;2;Boring Object;2 rounds;The priest casts this spell on a single, small, non-living object which makes it uninteresting and seem to fade into the background. Anyone other than the caster trying to find the object must make a 4d6 vs PER to find it, even if it is in plain sight. This will not protect against magical means of detection.;4d6 vs PER negates;LOS 5’;2 + 1/F hours;single object ≤ 5 lbs.;make object boring
Disinterest;3;Don’t Do That!;1 round;While casting this spell, the priest names an action of three words or less, such as “casting spells” or “talking loudly” and precedes it with the word “No.” The target within the area of effect recognizes the restriction in place and if they perform the named action during the duration, they must succeed at the resistance check to perform the action, or choose to do something else during the round.Actions can only include things that people can do voluntarily, actions like “no breathing” will not function with this spell unless breathing is optional for a target. This spell does not require the target to hear the caster.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;forbid action
Disinterest;4;Forbearing;1 round;When this spell is cast, everyone in the area including the caster must make the resistance check. All targets that fail the resistance check cannot become Quickened.;4d6 vs PWR negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;30 + 10/F’ radius;prevent Quickness
Disinterest;5;Who Cares?;1 round;The caster names a specific person or object during the casting of this spell. If the target fails the resistance check, the target will have no interest in the named person or object for the duration of the spell. This lack of interest will not cause the target to fear or get rid of an object or flee a person, they just won’t be interested in using or interacting with the object or person in any way. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;2 + 1/F hours;single target;remove interest
Disinterest;6;Stifle Emotions;1 round;This spell calms the emotions, including love, fear, hate, etc. of the target, allowing them to act very logically during the spell. If there are magical effects that modify the target’s emotion active, the target may instantaneously reattempt the resist check at 1 less die. For the duration of the spell, the target has 1 rank of Resist Emotions (this ability works like Resist Charm but only for effects that modify and affect the target’s emotions). This includes many of the spells in this group and other Orus spell groups.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;make less emotional
Disinterest;7;Mass Boredom;2 rounds;Everyone in the area other than the caster that fails the resistance check, becomes bored with their current task, as per the Boredom spell.;5d6 vs WIL negates;caster;2 + 1/F hours;60 + 15/F’ radius;everyone bored
Disinterest;8;Boring Person;2 rounds;This spell functions as the Boring Object spell but instead is cast on a single willing creature. If the creature is within plain sight, there is a 3d6 vs PER to notice the creature, and if the creature is attempting a Stealth check during the duration to remain unnoticed, it receives 1 die off the check. This will not protect against magical means of detection.;3d6 vs PER negates;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single creature;make creature boring
Disinterest;9;Calm Down;1 round;When this spell is cast, anyone in the area including the caster must make the resistance check. Anyone that fails the resistance check is calmed of strong emotions, and will become non-hostile. They lose interest in arguing and fighting, and will merely spectate any combat without intervening. If a combative action is taken against an individual under this effect, the effect instantly fades from the individual and their emotions and hostility return as normal.;5d6 vs PWR negates;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;60 + 15/F’ radius;calm all emotions
Disinterest;10;Emotional Block;2 rounds;This spell functions as per Stifle Emotions but affects all in the area except the caster.;5d6 vs WIL negates;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;60 + 15/F’ radius;block emotions in area
Disinterest;11;I’m Outta Here;2 rounds;This spell causes the caster and all willing targets touched during the casting time the caster designates to instantly teleport to the last safe location the caster has been. This may include the previous room in a dungeon, or outside a dangerous house.;willing targets;multitouch;instantaneous;touched targets;teleport to safety
Disinterest;12;Apathy;4 rounds;When this spell is cast, the caster names an activity, which can be as specific or general as the caster wishes. If the target fails the resistance check, they become apathetic about the stated activity for the duration. Example activities include: “lying,” “guarding,” “eating,” etc. The target will act accordingly as long as this spell is in effect and avoid the activity or, in the case of necessary activities to survive, make the minimum effort to continue it, although they will never cause harm to themselves.;6d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F weeks;single target;disinterest
Hope/Despair;1;Aspiration;1 round;When this spell is cast on a willing target, they become hopeful and optimistic about the current situation. For the duration, the target gains 1 rank of Exceptional WIL as their spirits are raised.;willing target;touch;1 + 1 minute;single creature;create ambition
Hope/Despair;2;Distress;1 round;If the target of this spell fails the resistance check, they become upset and distressed about the current situation and gain one rank of Inferior WIL as their spirits are dampened.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;single creature;create distress
Hope/Despair;3;Optimism;1 round;The caster emits an aura of optimism that lifts the spirits and hopes of those in the radius around them. This area follows the caster. Willing targets in the radius gain +1 + 1/2F to their ranks of all non-combat skills they know as long as they stay within the radius.;willing targets;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;aura of optimism
Hope/Despair;4;Pessimism;1 round;The target(s) becomes pessimistic, which dampens their spirits and hopes. The target(s) subtracts 1 + 1/2F to their ranks of all non-combat skills they know.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;1 + 1/2F creatures;aura of despair
Hope/Despair;5;Sanguine;1 reaction*;The priest casts this spell when a willing ally fails a skill or attribute check. This cannot be used on resist checks. They can then reattempt the skill or attribute check using one less die. The target is aware of the bonus.;willing target;LOS 20 + 5/F’;instantaneous;single creature;try again
Hope/Despair;6;Hopeless;1 reaction*;The priest casts this spell when a creature within range succeeds a skill or attribute check. This cannot be used on resist checks. They must then reattempt the skill or attribute check using one more die. The target is aware of the penalty.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;instantaneous;single creature;faltering success
Hope/Despair;7;Encourage;2 rounds;If the target of this spell fails the resistance check, they believe that a course of action the caster designates when casting, will succeed, even if it is fruitless or impossible. As such, they desire to perform the course of action for the duration of the spell if it is appropriate for the current situation. If they fail at the named course of action, they may reattempt the resist check to end this effect.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;encourage action
Hope/Despair;8;Discourage;2 rounds;If the target of this spell fails the resistance check, they believe that a course action the caster designates while casting, is hopeless and will fail. As such, they will not perform the action for the duration of the spell. If the named course of action must be taken to avoid harm or death, the target can reattempt the resist check to end this effect.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;discourage action
Hope/Despair;9;Doom;1 round;The target of this spell that fails the resistance check fully believes that they will die at the end of the spell’s duration unless they kill or destroy a visible creature or object chosen by the caster when this spell is cast. The target can reattempt the resistance check if they take damage, ending the spell on a success.;5d6 vs CSE negates;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single creature;“doom” target
Hope/Despair;10;Desperation;1 round;The target of this spell that fails the resistance check will enter a state of complete desperation. Their actions become rash and impulsive, but also quick and decisive for the spell’s duration.For the duration, they cannot use skills or spells that take more than one round to execute. The target always acts first during their party’s initiative round and does not have a chance to think about their action short of understanding their surroundings. ;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;create desperation
Hope/Despair;11;Motivate;4 rounds;The targets touched while this spell is cast become highly motivated toward a task designated by the caster during the casting of the spell. For the duration of the spell, anything that attempts to prevent them from completing their task will be less effective. They will be able to take 1 die off of resistance checks from spells as well as any attribute and skill checks when attempting to avoid or negate any effect that keeps them from their task. For contested checks using an attribute, they will gain an additional die to avoid an effect (such as being grappled) that keeps them from their task. ;willing targets;multitouch;30 + 10/F minutes;touched creatures;motivate group
Hope/Despair;12;Only Hope;4 rounds;The caster begins casting this spell, which doesn;t require any hand movements, by speaking the target’s name and saying, “you’re my only hope.” The caster then designates one course of action. The target must make the resistance check or believe wholeheartedly that they must complete the course of action for the greater good (or some other personal ideal or motivation).For the duration of the spell, the target takes 2 dice off of resistance checks from spells as well as any attribute and skill checks when attempting to avoid or negate any effect that keeps them from their task. For contested checks using an attribute, they will gain an additional two dice to avoid an effect (such as being grappled) that keeps them from their task. ;6d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;“you’re my only hope”
Hope/Despair;13;Wish;special*;This ability allows the user to cast any other divine spell of rank 12 or less from any divine spell group. This is usually used to cast spells the caster does not know, but at an increased unit cost and additional experience cost. The resistance check, target, duration, and area all use those of the power being emulated. The casting time is equal to the casting time of the intended spell being cast plus one extra round. If a permanent effect would be generated, it instead only lasts for 12 hours. Any other effects generated will last for their minimum listed duration and finessing this spell does not impact the effect’s duration. This spell cannot be used to create a spell effect to put into a Defer or create a Defer to store another spell. When this spell is used, the player should already have a spell in advance of making the wish in order to save time.;special*;special*;special*;special*;divine wish
