Wilderness;1;Land Sound;1 minute;The caster attunes themselves to the sounds of the wild and nature around them. For the duration, they gain 1 + 2/F ranks of Enhanced Hearing.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;enhanced hearing
Wilderness;2;Cloister;1 round;When the priest casts this spell, the undergrowth about them moves to hide their presence. It requires an attribute check of at least two dice against PER for others to notice the caster during this spell’s effect as long as the caster is motionless. The use of additional skills or spells can increase the difficulty of this check. Additionally, this spell can be used to assist with travel. For the duration all natural or magical undergrowth in physical contact with the targets of this spell moves aside, allowing the target to pass through without hindrance. This spell requires the caster to be within a forested or plant rich environment.;special;multitouch;10 + 5/F minutes;touched creatures;hide in undergrowth
Wilderness;3;Wither;1 round;The caster targets a creature within range to be hit with a blast of necrotic energy. Those who fail take 3d6 Blight damage on a failed save and half as much on a success. Plants that fail the resist check take double damage.;4d6 vs HEA;LOS 60’ + 15/F’;instantaneous;single creature or plant;cause blight
Wilderness;4;Photosynthesis;1 minute;The priest’s skin gains a green hue. For the duration of this spell they do not require any food as they gain energy from sunlight and water.;none;caster;1 + 1/F days;self;energy from light
Wilderness;5;Land Smell;1 minute;The caster’s sense of smell is enhanced so that they can detect, by smelling the ground and the plants nearby, which creatures have passed in the last 2 + 1/F days. They can learn the general type of creature and approximately how long ago it passed. The caster also gains one rank of Enhanced Sense of Smell.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;enhanced smell
Wilderness;6;Speed Run;1 round;For the duration of this spell, the target’s movement rate is doubled as long as they are moving through a forest, field of grass or another plant-rich environment. The target can travel around trees and through underbrush without hindrance.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;run fast
Wilderness;7;Beast Blood;1 round;This spell slows blood flow and increases its heat bearing capacity. The target feels comfortable even in freezing or hot temperatures. In addition, the target gains 1 + 1/4F ranks of Resist Cold or Resist Fire for the duration.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;6 + 2/F hours;single creature;resist temperature
Wilderness;8;Spiked Vine;1 round;This spell summons a large vine from the ground at the touched location. On the turn that it is summoned and all future rounds as a Standard Action, the caster may have the vine take one of the two following actions:The vine lashes out at a single target within 20’. The caster rolls to hit with the vine at either +8 CMOD or their own CMOD, whichever is higher, dealing 6d6 piercing and 2d4 poison damage on a hit.The vine sweeps wide across the field, hitting all within a 20’ cone. Creatures within may make a 5d6 AGI save or take 4d6 bludgeoning damage, half on a success.;none;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;20’ ;summon attack vine
Wilderness;9;Land Skim;1 minute;The caster sits facing the direction they wish to travel, then they concentrate and cast this spell. Slowly, the plants pick them and any creature they touched during the casting time and start handing them off in the chosen direction. Steadily accelerating, they soon travel at 20 + 5/F miles per hour. Affected creatures will be carried around trees and through underbrush without difficulty. The caster stays in this trance as long as the spell lasts, and they come upon no obstacles like wide rivers or man-made settlements at which point the spell ends. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;multitouch;2 + 1/F hours;touched creatures;ride fast
Wilderness;10;Land Block;1 round;The caster manipulates plants and dirt in the area to hinder movement of creatures. Movement rate of creatures within the area is halved unless they succeed at a resistance check of five dice against their AGI attribute. The caster and touched creatures are excluded from this effect. The area does not move with the caster.;5d6 vs AGI negates;multitouch, caster;1 + 1/F minutes;120 + 30/F’ radius;hinder movement
Wilderness;11;One with Nature;1 minute;The caster adapts their body and the bodies of touched creatures to any natural land environment they are in. Affected creatures feel comfortable no matter how harsh the surrounding conditions are. They do not require food or shelter for the duration.;4d6 vs WIL negates;multitouch;1 + 1/F days;touched creatures;adapt to environment
Wilderness;12;Land Port;2 rounds;The caster recalls a place they have previously memorized and casts this spell. If that location  and their current location are both on the same landmass (island, continent), however distant, a whirlwind of dirt and sand gathers up the caster, and teleports them to the memorized location, where they emerge from the whirlwind.;none;memlock;instantaneous;self;teleport through land
Land Life;1;Animal Kind;1 round;The caster sees a blue glow around any land creature. The strength of the glow indicates the general health and life force of the creature.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;LOS 300’;see land creatures
Land Life;2;Animal Call;1 round;Any land creature within the area of effect that is willing or fails the resistance check, approaches the caster and must stay for the spell’s duration. If a creature under this effect is attacked by the caster or the caster’s allies, the effect ends for that creature.;4d6 vs WIL negates;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;250 + 50/F’ radius;call forth land creatures
Land Life;3;Animal Send;1 minute;The target of this spell must be a non-intelligent land creature. The caster recalls a location they have previously memorized and casts this spell. If the creature is willing or fails the resistance check, it must go to that location. The creature is released from the spell when it arrives.When fully finessed, the caster can record a short message (up to one minute) that is played back when the creature is released.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;special;single land creature;send to location
Land Life;4;Animal Heal;1 round;The touched land creature gains (3 + 1/2F)d6 damage points back.;none;touch;instantaneous;single land creature;heal
Land Life;5;Animal Find;1 minute;The caster visualizes an object for which they are searching. Then they get the attention of a land creature and cast this spell. If the creature knows the location, it leads the caster to the object. When fully finessed, the creature brings the object to the caster instead if the creature is capable of carrying the object.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;single land creature;creature finds object
Land Life;6;Animal Sing;1 round;The caster can speak and be understood by any land creature within hearing. Simple commands can be communicated to non-intelligent creatures and two-way communication is possible with intelligent land creatures.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;hearing;speak to animal
Land Life;7;Animal Ride;1 round;After getting a land creature’s attention, and it is willing or fails the resistance check, the spell causes the creature to allow the caster to ride it for the duration. The spell grants the caster the ability required to ride the creature at full speed, but maneuvers beyond simple riding require a skill check as normal. The creature needs to be big enough and capable of hauling the caster for this spell to be effective.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;2 + 1/F hours;single land creature;hitch a ride
Land Life;8;Animal Protector;1 minute;After getting a land creature’s attention, the spell causes the creature to protect the caster if it is willing or fails the resistance check. The creature will attack anybody that is hostile to the caster and will follow the caster’s simple commands to the best of its ability.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;2 + 1/F hours;single land creature;animal guardian
Land Life;9;Animal Eyes;1 round;Cast on an attentive land creature that is willing or fails the resistance check, the caster is empowered to perceive the world through all of the creature’s senses. This includes vision, smell, taste, hearing and any other senses the creature possesses.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;single land creature;sense through creature
Land Life;10;Animal Tale;1 round;After getting a land creature’s attention and casting this spell, if the creature is willing or fails the resistance check, the caster gets a vision of one event in which they are interested if the creature witnessed the event in question.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;special;single land creature;see creature’s memory
Land Life;11;Animal Fury;2 rounds;Casting this spell and pointing toward the target will cause all willing land creatures in the area of effect, and those that fail the resistance check, to attack the target for the duration of the spell. If the creature is willing, they also get a +3 bonus on their attack rolls and damage.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;60 + 15/F’ radius;enrage land creatures
Land Life;12;Animal Save;reaction;As a reaction, the caster channels the power of nature to heal a land creature that is about to fall unconscious or die as a result of DP loss. The targeted creature gains 6d6 damage points.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single creature;save animal
Land Morph;1;Earth Sense;1 round;For the duration the caster gains 4 ranks of Tremor Sense creature ability.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;tremor sense
Land Morph;2;Earthbind;1 round;The caster launches a set of vines and rocks up to a flying creature. The creature must make the resistance check or be drawn to the ground and be unable to fly for the duration. The creature takes fall damage based on their initial flying height equal to 1d6 of damage per 10’ distance from the ground.;4d6 vs STR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;ground
Land Morph;3;Sand Stream;1 round;The caster points in a direction, and a strong stream of sand spouts from their hand. If directed at an opponent’s unprotected eyes, they must make the resistance check or be blinded for 1d4 rounds. This spell can be active multiple times, once per hand.;4d6 vs AGI negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;5’ x (20 + 10/F)’ line;blind creatures
Land Morph;4;Nature Shape;1 minute;The caster touches wood, sand, dirt or clay next to them, visualizes a shape, and then casts this spell. The material forms into that shape. Any applicable crafting skill checks should be made.With two finesses, the object is as strong as stone and with four finesses has properties of iron.;3d6 vs PWR negates;touch;instantaneous;1 + .5/F’ radius;creates object
Land Morph;5;Encase;2 rounds;After placing any inanimate object on the ground amidst grass or underbrush, the caster casts this spell. The plants move to form a strong, two inch thick mesh about the object, which obscures and restrains it.When fully finessed, the plants appear to grow in a very natural way, requiring a five dice check against PER attribute to notice the object.;none;touch;6 + 2/F hours;1’ radius;encases non-living object
Land Morph;6;Dirt Jet;1 round;The caster points in a direction, and a very strong stream of dirt spouts from their hand, striking anything in its path. Any creatures hit by the stream that fail the resistance check are forced back ten feet and knocked prone. This spell can be active multiple times, once per hand.;4d6 vs STR negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;5’ x (30 + 10/F)’ line;knock down
Land Morph;7;Land Shift;1 round;The caster points towards the creature currently touching the ground and makes a motion with their hand. Ground beneath the creature suddenly moves 40 + 10/F’ in the direction of the caster’s choosing. The creature may attempt the resistance check to jump away and avoid being moved. ;4d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single creature ;move creature
Land Morph;8;Earth Tremor;1 round;The caster causes ground to shake in the area of effect. Creatures within the area must make the resistance check or be knocked prone and suffer 4d6 blunt damage. Creatures that succeed at the resistance check take halved damage and keep standing. Any free standing objects in the area fall on the ground.;4d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;20 + 5/F’ radius;shake the earth
Land Morph;9;Clay Jet;1 round;The caster points in a direction, and a very strong stream of wet clay spouts from their hand, hitting anything in its path. Any creature or person hit by the stream who fails the resistance check is encased in the clay and is considered grappled. The clay has an effective STR attribute of 12 + 1/F when attempting to break free from it. This spell can be active multiple times, once per hand.;5d6 vs AGI negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;5’ x (30 + 10/F)’ line;encase in clay
Land Morph;10;Quagmire;1 round;The caster causes ground in the area of effect to turn into a swampy terrain. Any creature that failed the resistance check cannot move from their current position for the duration. Affected creatures may attempt to extract themselves by spending their entire round to reattempt the resistance check.;5d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;20 + 5/F’ radius;swamp
Land Morph;11;Nature Morph;10 minutes;The caster sits motionlessly on the ground and concentrates. The caster visualizes their desired result and over the casting time, dirt, sand, stone and plant material in the area shifts and morphs into structures from the caster’s imagination. This includes but not limited to making shelters, creating holes or walls, etc. Any appropriate crafting skill checks should be made otherwise structures will collapse at the end of casting time. Magical materials get a resistance check. Small objects cannot be created with the help of this spell.;3d6 vs PWR negates;caster;instantaneous;120 + 30/F’ radius;shape surroundings
Land Morph;12;Stone Jet;1 round;The caster points in a direction, and a stream of sharp rocks shoot from their hand, hitting anything in its path. Any creature or person hit by the stream who fails the resistance check suffers 6d6 points of earth damage. This spell can be active multiple times, once per hand.;5d6 vs AGI halves;caster;2 + 1/F rounds;5’ x (60 + 15/F)’ line;stream of stones
Natural Harmonia;1;Detect Plant;1 round;The caster of this spell can see all plants in the area of effect. All plants are outlined for the caster with a shimmering green glow.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;300’ radius;see plants
Natural Harmonia;2;Plant Heal;1 round;The caster summons the power of nature to heal 2d6 points of damage or any non magical diseases that might affect the plant. Additionally, this spell may be fully finessed to affect all plants in a 20’ radius.;none;touch;instantaneous;single plant;heal plant
Natural Harmonia;3;Speed Grow;1 minute;All plants in the area grow 50 + 50/F % faster for the duration.;3d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60’;1 + 1/F weeks;50’+25/F’ radius;grow faster
Natural Harmonia;4;Plant Sing;1 round;The caster can speak and be understood by any plants within hearing. What the plants do in response is up to them. Two-way communication is possible with intelligent plants.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;speak to plants
Natural Harmonia;5;Plant Sync;1 round;For the duration, the caster disappears into the targeted plant. They can feel anything the plant can feel in addition to their normal senses. If the plant dies while under this effect, the caster perishes with it.;3d6 vs WIL negates;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single plant;become one
Natural Harmonia;6;Ground Fertility;1 minute;The caster casts this spell, then tastes the ground of the area they are in. They can detect the approximate level of fertility of the ground. If this spell is used in conjunction with farming or gardening, the caster can find out how to make the ground healthier or what might be ailing the land.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;detect fertility
Natural Harmonia;7;Entangle;2 rounds*;During the first round of casting roots and vines appear in the area. The plants are thick and slow all movement by half unless those affected can make a 4d6 vs AGI. On a success, their base movement is only reduced by 10’. On the second round, the roots and vines attempt to hold creatures in the area in place with a +8 grapple attack, preventing them from moving around. Any creature grabbed by the roots must break the grapple against roots’ 9 + 3/F STR to move again. The caster may exclude any number of creatures from this effect, and may release them at any time. At the end of duration, the plants wither and retreat.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;80 + 20/F’ radius;root
Natural Harmonia;8;Mass Heal;2 rounds;Land creatures and plants in the area of effect heal 6d6 damage points.;3d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 20 + 10/F’;instantaneous;50 + 20/F’ radius;mass heal
Natural Harmonia;9;Plant Warding;1 minute;This spell creates an invisible barrier that prevents harmful insects, creatures or diseases from getting to the plants within the area. Anything harmful already in the area must make the resistance check or leave.;3d6 vs INT negates;LOS 60’;1 + 1/F days;150 + 30/F’ radius;protect plants
Natural Harmonia;10;Plant Stride;1 round;The caster gains an ability to instantly travel from one touched tree to any other tree of the same kind within 200’. The caster knows the location of other trees of the kind within 200’ as they touch the tree with the intention of traveling. The caster may teleport with this ability only once every round as part of their movement. ;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;travel through plant
Natural Harmonia;11;Wild Growth;4 rounds;The targeted plant grows to twice its original size. This can be further amplified with finesses.A detailed table of resulting effects is located in Appendix C under Enmass.;2d6 vs PWR negates;touch;6 + 2/F hours;single plant;make big
Natural Harmonia;12;Force of Nature;2 rounds;4 + 1/F plants in the area of effect failing the resistance check “come alive” and will follow the caster's orders for the duration. All plants can move about like they were sentient and had muscles. Ivy/Vine based plants have a 10 grapple modifier while most other plants like bushes, trees, etc. have a 10 combat modifier. Plant defense values are equal to 10/10/10 and it has 20 DP.For grapples, the plants have 12 STR. The plants that attack with combat mod do 1d12 damage, and ones that grapple, deal 1d4 damage. The plants can move at 50’ a round.;3d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 50’;10 + 5/F minutes;80 + 20/F’ radius;plants come alive
Natural Harmonia;13;Life;1 minute;This spell will bring a single corpse, plant, or a 50’ radius of non-intelligent plants back to life. This spell only functions on land creatures and land based plants unless fully finessed.Refer to Appendix C: Spell Clarifications for general resurrection mechanics.;none;touch;instantaneous;single corpse*;bring back to life
Aspect of the Hunt;1;Mark of the Hunter;1 round*;This spell can be used in conjunction with a successful simple attack. The caster leaves a mark of Osiris on a creature within range. While not doing much on its own, this spell enables many other spells and effects of the group. If the marked creature dies, the caster may move the mark to another creature within range as a free action by spending 1 DU. Only one creature can be marked at the same time.;none;caster, LOS 120’;2 + 1/F hours;self, single creature;mark prey
Aspect of the Hunt;2;Track;1 round;The caster pulls upon their connection with the land, and enhances their senses for tracking. For the duration, they take one die off any checks to track or stalk land creatures.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;enhanced tracking
Aspect of the Hunt;3;Identify Abilities;1 round;By studying traces and marks left by the marked creature, the caster of this spell may identify abilities of the creature based on number of finesses, with higher finesses including information of lower ones.0 - Movement type (land/swim/fly) and rate.2 - Defense values or Base damage die4 - Highest Susceptible or Highest Resistance, type and rank.If the information is unattainable for any reason, the spell fizzles and no units are spent.;none;caster, special;instantaneous;self, single creature;identify abilities
Aspect of the Hunt;4;Thrill of the Hunt;1 round;For the duration of this spell, the caster may take one die off weapon and maneuver skill checks while attacking a marked creature.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;hunt better
Aspect of the Hunt;5;Lay in Wait;1 minute;The hunter enters the state of patiently waiting for their prey, focusing their mind and body onto that one task. For the duration of this spell the caster does not require food, water, air and sleep. Their metabolism slows down to a point of appearing as an inanimate object to non-magical detections like Thermal Vision, Echolocation, Tremor Sense, etc. The caster stays at full alert, cannot rest for the duration and can start moving at a moment's notice which ends the spell.;none;caster;6 + 2/F hours;self;wait for prey
Aspect of the Hunt;6;Hunter’s Pursuit;1 round;For the duration of this spell, the caster may move their full movement rate without being tired if they follow the marked creature’s tracks.When fully finessed, the caster may move their full movement rate during combat and take their full action if their actions are directed at the marked creature.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;pursue prey
Aspect of the Hunt;7;Death Mark;1 round;Mark of the Hunter allows the hunter to perceive weak points of the target, direct attacks there. For the duration of this spell, the caster deals an additional 1d6 + 1/F points of damage on every successful attack against the currently marked creature. The type of additional damage is based on their weapon’s main damage type.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;increase damage
Aspect of the Hunt;8;Impose Vulnerability;1 round;For the duration of this spell, the marked creature is granted 2 ranks of Susceptible to the damage type of the caster’s choice.If the creature is slain, the caster may move this effect to a newly marked creature at which point, the creature attempts the resistance check and the caster may choose a different damage type.;5d6 vs WIL negates;special;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;weaken
Aspect of the Hunt;9;Vital Sight;1 round;For the duration of this spell, the caster adds 6 to all rolls to hit the marked creature. In addition, the caster ignores the -8 penalty to hit if the creature is invisible or within any effect that obscures vision.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;precise strikes
Aspect of the Hunt;10;Hunter’s Respite;1 round;The caster of this spell gains 4d6 damage points up to their maximum every time a marked creature is slain. Damage points gained cannot exceed the slain creature’s maximum DP amount.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;self;heal
Aspect of the Hunt;11;Fatal Strike;3 rounds*;The hunter must be patient to deliver the fatal blow at the right moment. For the first two rounds of the casting time, the caster stands motionlessly with their weapon drawn. On the final round of casting, the caster takes their full action which can include moving, rolling weapon skills and maneuvers, etc. Any successful attack against the marked creature during this round of actions is considered to roll maximum possible core damage.If the caster is undetected during their preparation rounds, attacks are rolled against the creature’s touch defense values.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;massive damage
Aspect of the Hunt;12;Hunter’s Foresight;1 round;The hunter gains supernatural insight into the marked creature’s fighting style, allowing them to predict and avoid attacks. The caster takes 1 die off any resistance or attribute check that originated from the marked creature. The caster’s magic defense values are increased by 5 for the purpose of avoiding the marked creature’s attacks.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;insight
Animal Form;1–13;Animal Form;4 - 2/F rounds;The caster calls upon the power of nature to change their physique to one of another land animal of the rate equal or below (rank of Animal Form used) x 5. Buying up ranks in this group covers the process of studying all manual land creatures at and below the maximum allowed rate. The spell can function in two different ways.Full Transformation: The caster’s body fully transforms into a bestial form. Their base attributes or mental facilities do not change, but all their creature abilities are replaced with creature abilities of the chosen land animal. That includes their movement rates, Exceptional Attributes (only physical), natural attacks, natural armor without penalties, any resistances and susceptibilities, any sensory abilities, any racial abilities and bonuses. While in this form, the caster cannot use their regular weapons and make gestures required for spell casting. The caster may choose for their equipment to disappear during transformation or drop on the ground next to them. Spell casting is still possible with a proper Arcana: Verbal Casting check. The caster’s current and maximum DP does not change. This spell can be finessed to add 5 temporary DP per finesse while the caster is transformed. Partial Transformation: The caster commands the magic with much higher precision allowing them to turn only a portion of their body into one of the land animal’s. They can replace one of the following with corresponding abilities of the animal:Movement rates and movement creature abilities such as Jumping or BurrowingPhysical (STR, HEA, AGI, COM) Exceptional AttributesNatural AttacksNatural Armor, including resulting penaltiesResistances and SusceptibilitiesSensory AbilitiesThe caster’s own abilities of the chosen category are fully replaced with ones from the creature. With multiple castings it is possible to replace more than one category of abilities to ones from the same or different creature.While in this form, the caster does not lose the ability to utilize their equipment or cast their spells.The caster’s current and maximum DP does not change. This spell can be finessed to add 5 temporary DP per finesse while the caster is transformed. ;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;change to animal
