Compile;1;Scald;1 round;The caster’s outstretched hand discharges a hot (200 degrees Fahrenheit) blast of air., which deals 1d6 of heat damage. This spell can only be cast while in sunlight. ;none;caster;instantaneous;5’ x (5 + 5/F)’ line;hot blast of air
Compile;2;Light Pen;2 rounds;The caster’s fingertip becomes a writing instrument which can write by burning on the surface of any non-living, burnable object. This spell can only be cast while in sunlight. A magical item or surface must make a 2d6 vs PWR check to negate this effect.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single surface;burns in words
Compile;3;Sunburst;1 round;When this beam strikes its target, the target suffers 3d6 fire/heat damage. This spell can only be cast while in sunlight. ;4d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single target;heat beam
Compile;4;Reflect;2 rounds;The caster waves his hand in a circle in front of them, and a mirror forms. The mirror remains centered on the caster’s open palm and reflects all light or beam based attacks and effects. A 2-die Arcana check can be made to bypass the mirror. This spell can only be cast while in sunlight. ;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;4’ radius circle;creates mirror
Compile;5;Boil;2 rounds;The caster immerses their hand within a non-magical liquid and casts this spell. The maximum temperature is 212 degrees Fahrenheit (water’s boiling point), so the liquid may boil, if appropriate. The caster’s hand is not harmed by the boiling liquid, and the liquid begins to cool normally once the caster withdraws their hand. This spell can only be cast while in sunlight. ;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;2 + 1/F gallons ;boils liquids
Compile;6;Nova;1 round;When this beam strikes its target, that target suffers 6d6 fire/heat damage. It can only be cast while in sunlight.;5d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;heat ray
Compile;7;Focus;1 round;This spell is cast by the priest in the round before they cast a light or energy based spell from a Ra spell group. The caster focuses the light into a collimated beam. This will double the base target range of the spell (if it is not touch or caster), and also add an additional 2d6 of damage to the spell’s damage (if it has any). This spell can only be cast while in sunlight.;none;touch;1 round*;single light-based spell;focus
Compile;8;Ignite;1 round;A beam of light leaps from the caster’s outstretched fingers and hits the target point. If the target is flammable, it ignites. If a creature (or worn clothes) is affected by this spell, the target is considered Burning. The flame is treated as normal, and non-magical, and can be put out with a standard action. This spell can only be cast while in sunlight.;4d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single point;set on fire
Compile;9;Super Nova;1 round;The caster gathers energy from the sun before firing it in a powerful beam, emanating from their outstretched hand to the target point, dealing 9d6 fire/heat damage to all creatures that fail the resistance check (or half as much on a success). It can only be cast while in sunlight.;5d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;4 + 1/F’ wide line;super heat beam
Compile;10;Sun Mark;1 round;This spell allows the priest to use the energy of the sun to summon an ankh-shaped mark floating above the target, symbolizing Ra’s enmity. The mark is about six inches high and causes the target to add one die to any resist check from a Ra spell group. This spell can only be cast while in sunlight. ;5d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;brands target
Compile;11;Sun Blind;2 rounds;The unfortunate target of this spell will have their sight destroyed, and be permanently Blinded if they fail the resistance check. The target must have visual organs for this spell to work. This spell can only be cast while in sunlight.;5d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;instantaneous;single target;blinds
Compile;12;Sun Strike;2 rounds;The unfortunate targets of this spell suffer the Gaze of Ra. They are burned by his gaze, suffering 12d6 fire/heat damage if they fail the resistance check. This spell can only be cast while in sunlight. ;5d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;20 + 5/F’ radius;super sun beam
Compile;13;Resurrect;1 minute;The caster and target body must remain in sunlight for the entire casting of the spell or else the spell fails. Refer to Appendix C: Spell Clarifications for general resurrection mechanics.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single corpse;restore life
Decompile;1;Beam Talk;2 rounds;A faint beam of light leaps from the caster’s hand. Sound is transmitted along the beam in both directions whenever it encounters non-reflective, solid matter. The caster can use this to talk to anyone they can see without being overheard. Mirrors and lenses may be used to redirect the beam, although Arcana checks may apply.;none;LOS 600 + 150/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;1’ radius;sound along light beam
Decompile;2;Dark Daze;1 round;The target of this spell must not be in direct sunlight. If the target fails the resistance check, they are Dazed. They may reattempt the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending the spell on a success. If the target is exposed to direct sunlight, or if this spell is Revoked, this effect ends early.;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;daze when dark
Decompile;3;Beam Sight;2 rounds;A faint beam of light leaps from the caster’s hand. Vision is transmitted along the beam in both directions whenever it encounters non-reflective, solid matter. The caster sees what is visible in a 10 + 5/F’ radius from the other end of the beam. Mirrors and lenses may be used to focus and direct the beam, although Arcana checks may apply.;none;LOS 600 + 150/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;sight along light beam
Decompile;4;Dark Pain;1 round;The target of this spell must not be in direct sunlight. If the target fails the resistance check, they take 2d6 of pain damage at the start of each of their turns for the spell’s duration. They may reattempt the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending the spell on a success. If the target is exposed to direct sunlight, or if this spell is Revoked, this effect ends early.;3d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;pain when dark
Decompile;5;Beam ‘Port;2 rounds;A faint beam of light leaps from the caster’s hand. The caster de-materializes, then re-materializes where the beam encounters non-reflective, solid matter. The beam may be manipulated with mirrors or lenses, although Arcana checks may apply.;none;LOS 600 + 150/F’;instantaneous;self;teleport along light beam
Decompile;6;Dark Lock;2 rounds;The target of this spell must not be in direct sunlight. If the target fails the resistance check, they are slowly petrified into stone. At the end of each of the target’s turns, they must attempt the resist check. If they succeed against the spell 3 times, the spell ends, removing any of its effects. If they fail the resist check once, they are Rooted; if they fail the resist twice, they become Magically Paralyzed; if they fail three times, they are Petrified permanently. If the target is exposed to direct sunlight, or successfully Revoking this spell returns the target to normal, with no knowledge of the intervening time, but they are aware they were turned to stone.;4d6 vs PWR*;LOS 30 + 10/F’;special*;single target;petrify when dark
Decompile;7;Sun Talk;2 rounds;The caster visualizes someone they know who they wish to speak with. If they are both in the light of the same sun, they can talk as if they were next to each other. The target knows who is contacting them with this spell, and can choose to be willing or attempt to resist the check.;4d6 vs PWR negates;special*;10 + 5/F minutes;known creature;long distance talk
Decompile;8;Enlighten;1 round;The caster points at an unoccupied point within range and casts the spell. A non-damaging shimmering sphere of light is summoned at the location, emitting bright light for 30’ which counts as direct sunlight, and an additional 30’ of dim lightning beyond that (the dim lighting does not count as direct sunlight). This spell can be finessed to increase both the bright direct sunlight and dim lighting radii by 10/F’.The caster can use a fifth to move the source of light 30’ in any direction.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;special*;light of Ra
Decompile;9;Sun Sight;2 rounds;The caster visualizes someone they know who they wish to see. If they are both in the light of the same sun, they can see each other as if they were next to each other. The target knows who is contacting them with this spell, and can choose to be willing or attempt to resist the check.If this spell is finessed twice, the caster makes the connection one-way, making themself invisible to the target, and the target is unaware of the resist check, allowing the caster to scry on the target if they fail.;4d6 vs PWR negates;special*;10 + 5/F minutes;known creature;long distance sight
Decompile;10;Rainbow;2 rounds;This spell automatically works when cast on a non-magical cloudy day or storm. The caster motions toward the sun, casting this spell. Any rain stops and the clouds part, revealing the sun. If the weather is magical, this spell acts like a rank 10 Revoke on the magic causing the clouds or storm, dispersing them on a success. ;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;2000’ radius;open clouds
Decompile;11;Sun Port;2 rounds;The caster recalls any place they have memorized and casts this spell. If their present location and destination are in the light of the same sun, they dematerialize, then re-materialize at their destination. They cannot bring more than they can carry or any other living creatures.;none;memlock;instantaneous;self;teleport
Decompile;12;Hold Day;4 rounds;This spell bends the light of Ra around the planet, delaying the setting of the sun. The sun sits on the horizon for the duration of the spell. When the spell ends, night falls suddenly. ;none;special*;30 + 10/F minutes;2,000’ radius;delay sunset
Discorporate;1;Ankh;1 round;The caster creates a white glowing image of an ankh at any point within range. The ankh makes demonic and undead creatures become Dazed for one round if they fail the resistance check. The ankh can affect other creature types that may fear or oppose light and order, as determined by the GM.;3d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 round;single target;create ankh image
Discorporate;2;Bright Sight;2 rounds;The target’s eyes project a yellow cone of bright light 50 feet long and up to 10 feet wide, which counts as direct sunlight. This light simply illuminates and is not powerful enough to adversely affect creatures sensitive to sunlight or blind. ;willing target;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;headlights
Discorporate;3;Brilliant Flash;1 round;This casting temporarily Blinds an opponent with a brilliant flash of white light for 1 + 1/F rounds. The flash can be seen for miles in dark and clear conditions. Creatures without visual organs are immune to this spell.;4d6 vs PER negates;caster;instantaneous;20’ x 10’ cone;temporary blindness
Discorporate;4;Truce;1 round;An enemy struck by this spell will cease attacking the caster and their compatriots, and will listen to what the caster says while the spell is in effect. If a combative action is taken against the target, this spell ends automatically. A gentle, orange glow illuminates the target while this spell is in effect.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;truce
Discorporate;5;Disclose;1 round;The caster touches their intended target, who becomes illuminated by a gentle, cyan glow. If the target makes a 4d6 vs WIL resistance check, all mind-affecting magic controlling them is canceled. ;4d6 vs WIL accepts;touch;instantaneous;single target;clears mind
Discorporate;6;Prism;1 round;Violet light illuminates the target, which then blurs and splits into two to six images (1d6, ignore a result of one). The spell prevents any viewers from knowing which image is the real target. All the images which are not the target look, move and respond like the target, but have no substance. The images cannot be more than 15’ away from each other.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 20 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;splits image
Discorporate;7;Spot Light;1 round;The caster points to a specific spot, and a white spotlight shines from above them to the place they have pointed. Any demonic or undead creatures in the area must make the resistance check or become Frightened and flee in terror. ;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;creates spotlight
Discorporate;8;Revealing Light;1 round;The caster points to a point within range and a beam of blue light extends from their fingertip to the point and bursts with a wave of shimmering blue light. Any creatures within the radius must make the resist check or be illuminated with the light and shed 5’ of dim light around them for the duration. If a creature is invisible, they become visible for the spell’s duration.;5d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;20 + 5/F’ radius;reveal creatures
Discorporate;9;Daytime;1 round;An area about the caster is bathed in bright light that counts as full sunlight. Any demonic or undead creatures that start their turn in this light must make the resistance check or take 6d6 magical light damage. ;5d6 vs CSE halves;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;30’ radius;creates daylight
Discorporate;10;Enrage;1 round;The target is bathed in a fierce red glow. If they fail the resistance check, they are Enraged, which overrides their intellect and forces them to wildly attack the closest creature, be it friend or foe for the duration of the spell. The target can reattempt the resist check at the end of each of its turns, ending this spell on a success.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;angering light
Discorporate;11;Squelch;1 round;The target is illuminated by an indigo glow. If they fail the resistance check, all their magic temporarily fails. Magic items are useless, potions ineffective, and spell casting impossible. Active magical effects are not impacted. The target can reattempt the resist check at the end of each round, ending the spell on a success.;5d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;stop magic
Discorporate;12;Light of Revitalization;2 rounds;The caster emits a gentle green glow about them, which extends 30’ in all directions. This light follows the caster as they move. Willing allies within the light heal 2d6 DP up to their DP maximum at the start of their turn, and while within the light, cannot have their maximum DP or any attribute scores decreased or drained. This does not affect any existing conditions or effects.;willing target;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;30’ radius;vitality light
Order;1;Voice of Order;1 round;The caster infuses their voice with authority and magical ethos, making them more persuasive when acting as a paragon of order. The caster gets one die off their next Acting or Psychology check made within the spell’s duration, as long as they are speaking credibly and without deceit.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;speak with authority
Order;2;Repeat Action;1 round;This spell orders the target's mind so that they must attempt to repeat the last action they took before this spell was cast every round for the duration of this spell. If they cannot repeat it (if they ran out of units to cast a spell or were using a charged item), they go through the same motions but nothing happens. If the action would bring them to harm or death, they automatically succeed the resist check. The target can reattempt the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending this effect on a success.;3d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F rounds;single creature;repeat their action
Order;3;Lessen Randomness;1 round;This spell makes the next 1 + 1/F rolls made by the target more average. Each roll is reduced or increased toward the average of that roll (rounded down) by 2 + 1/F. If the roll is within 2 + 1/F or less of the average, then the roll becomes average (rounded down).;3d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;special*;single creature;average rolls
Order;4;Sort;2 rounds;This spell sorts a pile of loose objects into ordered sets based on parameters the caster chooses. The spell will fail if the objects are not loose, like if they are glued together or someone is holding them. The parameters can be anything that the caster can perceive about the group, like largest to smallest. For example if the caster casts Detect Divinity they could sort based on most divine, but if they cannot detect this when they cast this spell it will fail and the objects remain in a pile. ;none;touch;instantaneous;pile of loose objects;order objects
Order;5;Harm Undead;1 round;This spell shoots a small beam of holy energy at the target. If the target has no life force of its own, it takes 5d6 divine light damage, but if the target has life force of its own nothing happens.;3d6 vs PWR halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single undead creature;damage undead
Order;6;Reduce Randomness;1 round;This spell makes all rolls made by the target within the spell’s duration more average. Each roll is reduced or increased toward the average of that roll (rounded down) by 2 + 1/F. If the roll is within 2 + 1/F or less of the average, then the roll is average (rounded down). ;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;average rolls
Order;7;Exorcism;special*;This casting attempts to oust a spirit which has possessed a body other than its own. If successful, the foreign spirit is cast out, and the owner of the body regains control. The caster continues casting this spell each round until the spirit wins and retains control or the spirit loses and is expelled. At the end of each of the caster’s rounds, the spirit must make the resist check. If it succeeds three times, it retains control. If it fails three times, it is expelled out of the body.;5d6 vs WIL*;touch;instantaneous;single target;break possession
Order;8;Orderly Action;1 round;This spell orders the target's mind and luck. They must attempt to repeat the last action they took before this spell took effect every round for the duration of this spell. If they cannot repeat it (if they ran out of units or were using a charged item), they go through the same motions but nothing happens. They do not need to reroll any rolls that they made during their actions, instead they use the same rolls that they rolled on the first round they took these actions.  If the action would bring them to harm or death, they automatically succeed the resist check. The target can reattempt the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending this effect on a success.Any rolls they make as a result of other creature's actions are not affected by this, such as resistance checks. The player casting this spell should write down the rolls made by the creature they are planning to target before they cast this spell. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F rounds;single creature;repeat actions
Order;9;Subdue Foe;1 round;This spell causes the target to become incapable of voluntary muscle movement. They collapse and cannot move or speak, becoming Magically Paralyzed, but he knows what is going on around him. The target can reattempt the resistance check each time they take damage, ending this effect on a success.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 120 + 30/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;single creature;immobilize target
Order;10;Smite Undead;1 round;This spell shoots a large beam of life energy at the target. If the target has no life force of its own it takes 10d6 divine light damage. The target takes no damage if it has a life force of its own. If the target is currently benefiting from a life force draining spell or ability, that effect is negated. This includes but is not limited to spells in the Decay group and abilities like Deplete Attribute. ;5d6 vs PWR halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;single creature;greatly damage undead
Order;11;Remove Randomness;2 rounds;All rolls made within the area of effect of this spell are always average (rounded down). This includes all attacks and resist checks made by creatures within the area and damage rolls for all weapons or spells that hit creatures within the area. Damage rolls from spells or attacks made by creatures in the area that hit creatures outside the area are unaffected. ;none;LOS 120 + 30/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;20 + 5/F’ radius;all rolls are average
Order;12;Zone of Order;2 rounds;Any creature within the area of this spell that fails the resistance check cannot take any action that would cause harm to any other creature. Creatures also cannot take any action that would harm an object not owned by them. If a creature is attacked by a creature that made the resistance check or a creature outside the area of effect they may take any actions they wish against that creature. The caster automatically fails the resistance check. The spell is initially centered on the caster, but it remains immobile and does not move with them.;6d6 vs WIL negates;caster;1 hour;120 + 30/F’ radius;impose order
Leadership;1;Double Time;1 round;After this spell is cast, the caster and all willing allies within hearing range can move at the same movement rate as the caster for the spell’s duration, but wil not prevent fatigue or exhaustion from continued running. If Tireless Running or a similar spell is affecting the caster, that effect will apply to the allies affected by this spell. This spell cannot be used in a combat situation. ;willing targets;caster;6 + 2/F hours;clear hearing;double time
Leadership;2;At Attention;1 round;All those who become quiet and listen attentively during the duration of this spell gain a perfectly implanted memory (considered memlocked) of the commands given during the duration. ;willing targets;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;clear hearing;give orders
Leadership;3;Form Up;1 round;This spell affects all those who move to a formation set up ahead of time. All those who comply act as if they succeeded at a Psychology: Tactics check to work well together.;willing targets;caster;6 + 2/F hours;clear hearing;work together
Leadership;4;Incoming!;1 reaction*;When the caster notices a threat to their allies mounting they may warn them of the result they believe will occur. If the result comes to pass during the spell’s duration, the allies take one die off the resistance check to avoid this threat. For example, if a fire mage begins casting Comet, and the caster identifies and recognizes the casting, the caster gains a chance to give warning, casting the Incoming! spell, and all allies take a dice off of the resist check on the Comet spell.;willing targets;caster;1 + 1/F rounds;clear hearing;warn of threat
Leadership;5;MEDIC!!;1 round;The next attempt to heal the noted ally during the duration results in an additional 5d6 DP healed, up to the target’s maximum DP. The healing does not have to come from the caster of this spell.;willing target;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;single target clear hearing;targeted healing
Leadership;6;On Your Guard;1 round;All allies who use the Defend action in the duration gain an additional 1 + 1/F to all their defense values. If the ally has a shield they double the defense values gained. This spell has no effect on defense values when not taking the Defend action.;willing targets;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;clear hearing;form a shield wall
Leadership;7;Covert Ops;1 round;All willing allies may take two dice off all Stealth checks they attempt during the duration. If a target of this spell does not have ranks in Stealth, this lowers the default extra dice by 2 dice.;willing targets;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;clear hearing;tactical stealth
Leadership;8;Take Cover;1 round;All willing allies gain a 3 + 3/F temporary damage point shield for the duration. This shield takes damage before the ally would, and is dispelled if it reaches zero.;willing targets;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;clear hearing;become tougher
Leadership;9;Present Arms… Fire!;1 round;This spell is used to coordinate an attack of ranged weapons or single target spells. At the end of the casting time, the order is given to fire and all allies may fire their weapons or cast spells during the same round as the spell is cast. All weapons and spells that fire upon the command gain +6 light damage. This bonus damage only affects the first attack that hits by any ally, further multi-attacks do not receive this bonus damage. The player should announce the casting of this spell when initiative is rolled for a round, prior to any actions taking place.;willing targets;caster;instantaneous;clear hearing;fire on order
Leadership;10;Safe Retreat;1 round;All willing allies who choose to retreat from the battlefield gain 10 to all their magic defense values and take a die off of resistance checks from enemies that continue to attack them. Once an ally chooses to retreat, they may not perform offensive actions against enemies for the duration unless prevented from retreating. ;willing targets;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;clear hearing;get away from fight
Leadership;11;Priority Target;1 round;All allies who choose to attack (with a weapon or a spell) a named target within line of sight do an additional 7 points of damage of the weapon or spell's type. This damage is only applied once per attacking ally per round. When this spell is cast, the named target can make a 5d6 vs PWR to negate this spell.;willing targets;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;clear hearing;mark for death
Leadership;12;Shrug It Off;1 reaction*;The caster uses this spell in reaction to an ally failing a resistance check, attribute check, or unconsciousness roll that would kill them, knock them Unconscious, or cause them to lose control of their mind (Charmed, Frightened, Dazed, Enraged, etc.). The ally can reattempt the check at one die less (or in the case of a consciousness check, automatically succeed). The caster may only use this spell on a single ally during a round.;willing target;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;single target clear hearing;keep ally going
Maelstroms;1;Sunstorm Shawl;1 round;The caster magically generates a small storm cloud and spins the cloud into a personal garment; it can only be worn by the caster, dissolves away if worn by anything else, holds 1 + 1/F charges, and a charge may be spent to resolve a spellcast as if the caster were within direct sunlight or submerged in water or to maintain a spell that requires it for one round when these conditions are no longer met.;none;caster;6 + 2/F hours;self;cloaks in storm
Maelstroms;2;Haar;1 round;The caster summons a cold sea fog (haar) around themselves, creating a thick cloud of fog that surrounds them for 20 + 5/F’ in all directions. The fog moves with the caster, remaining centered on them and making its area obscured. The caster and each creature within 5 feet of the caster instead treat the area as in direct sunlight, and are not visually impaired by it. This haar spreads around corners, and cannot be dispersed unless the caster chooses to end this effect, or it is Revoked.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minute;20 + 5/F’ radius;cold sea fog
Maelstroms;3;Safecloud;1 round;The caster summons a light, pleasant mist in the target area. The caster may choose to exclude any creatures of their choice in the area from area-of-effect spells or effects. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;none;LOS 60 + 20/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;30 + 10/F’ radius;exclude allies
Maelstroms;4;Binding Storm;1 round;The caster summons a small squall that engulfs the target. If the target fails the resist check, they are Grappled by the spell, and are considered submerged in water. The Grappled target can attempt to break the grapple, and the storm has an effective 12 STR to keep the grapple. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;4d6 vs STR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;2 + 1/F rounds;single target;bind with storm
Maelstroms;5;Solar Cyclone;1 round;The caster summons a swirling cyclone of dawn-painted clouds, brimming with light. Any creature that enters the cyclone or starts its turn in the cyclone must make the resist check to halve 4d6 light damage. Regardless of a success or failure, any creature within the cyclone’s area of effect is considered to be in direct sunlight. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;storm of light
Maelstroms;6;Maelstrom Rupture;1 round;The caster lobs a shimmering orb of divine energy at the target, where it erupts into a blinding blast of light and rain, dealing 6d6 water or light damage (caster’s choice) to all in the area. If a creature fails the resist check, they are Blinded and Drenched. A Blinded creature can reattempt the resist check at the end of each of its rounds to negate the Blinded status effect on itself. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;Instantaneous;20 + 5’/F radius;radiant energy orb
Maelstroms;7;Sun Lightning;1 round;The caster chooses up to 3 + 1/2F targets within the range. These targets are brimmed with golden light, before bolts of divine lightning fall upon them from the heavens. Each target must make the resist check to halve 6d6 light damage. Additionally, if they fail the resist check, the target is still surrounded by the golden aura, and is considered in direct sunlight for the next minute. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;5d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous*;up to 3 + 1/2F creatures;radiant lightning
Maelstroms;8;Sunstorm Aura;1 minute;The caster touches 1 + 1/F willing creatures during the casting of this spell, and they are haloed by golden clouds. For the duration, as long as these targets remain within 120 + 30/F’ of the caster, they are considered within direct sunlight and submerged in water (but not Drenched) for the purposes of spellcasting.;willing target;multitouch;6 + 2/F hours;1 + 1/F targets;sunlight and water
Maelstroms;9;Akvolumotravo;1 round;The caster points in a direction, and a stream of radiant light and water  spouts from their hand, hitting anything in its path. Any creature hit by the sunshower who fails the resistance check takes 8d6 water or light damage (caster’s choice), and is then considered Drenched. This spell can be active multiple times, once per hand. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;5d6 vs AGI negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;5’ x (30 + 10/F)’ line;beams of sunshowers
Maelstroms;10;Maelstrom Blade;1 round;The caster infuses a weapon with water and light, which confers the following effects:The weapon deals +2d6 damage, and the caster may convert all damage the weapon would deal to either water damage or light damage, piercing 1 rank of relevant Resist.Any of the spell effects applied from a casting of Maelstrom Blade end if anyone other than the caster wields the weapon targeted by the spell. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;none;touch;6 + 2/F hours;single weapon;divine enchantment
Maelstroms;11;Storm of Dawn;2 rounds;The caster summons a storm of light and rain. Everything within the radius of the storm is Drenched and in direct sunlight. Each round of the spell’s duration, as a free action, the caster can summon two bolts of Sun Lightning, targeting creatures within the storm’s area. The targets must make the resist check to halve 6d6 light damage. Additionally, if they fail the resist check, the target is still surrounded by the golden aura, and is considered in direct sunlight for the next minute, even if they leave the storm’s radius. The caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;5d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;2 + 1/F rounds;60 + 15/F’ radius;summon sunstorm
Maelstroms;12;Envoy of Two Gods;1 round;The caster channels the essence of Neptune and Ra, becoming a vessel for their holy ordinance. Choose up to 2 + 1/2F effects that are applied to the caster for the duration:Rank 2 Light Aura or Water AuraPierce up to 2 ranks of Resist Light when dealing light damagePierce up to 2 ranks of Resist Water when dealing water damageThe caster emits an aura for 60 feet of bright, direct sunlight, and 60 feet of dim lighting beyond thatWhen the caster deals light damage, they heal DP equal to half damage dealtAll spell effects that deal water damage also Drench their targets, regardless of a successful resist checkThe caster must be submerged in water or in direct sunlight to cast this spell.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minute;self;divine empowerment
