Forge;1;Extinguish;1 round;A single torch, small fire, or similar light source is snuffed, preventing it from producing light. Magical light sources must make a 3d6 vs PWR to negate this effect.;none;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;single light source;extinguish light
Forge;2;Gloom;1 round;This spell casts a shadow across the target’s mind. If he fails the resistance check, he becomes morose, pessimistic, and slightly angry. Any checks to persuade or push the target to violence are one die easier.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;single target;darkens mood
Forge;3;Conceal;1 round;Shadows converge to conceal the target. It cannot be in direct sunlight, and must be willing or fail the resistance check. If the shadows are obviously out of place, they may not go unnoticed. ;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;conceals target
Forge;4;Ombroteni;1 round;If the target fails the resistance check and is not in direct sunlight, they are Grappled by tendrils of darkness. The tendrils have an effective STR of 12 for the purposes of breaking the grapple.;4d6 vs STR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;entangles target
Forge;5;Ombromenso;1 round;The priest casts this spell by staring into the eyes of the target and saying, “You are confused about…” If the target fails the resistance check, they will be confused and undecided about the stated issue. They will not realize they are enspelled. This spell requires no hand movements, but the priest does need to be talking to the target for the casting time of the spell. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 10’;4 + 2/F days;single target;clouds issue
Forge;6;Dim;1 round;The caster causes darkness to form within the target’s eyes. If the target fails the resistance check, their vision is reduced to 30 - 10/F. If it is reduced to 0, they are Blinded for the duration.;4d6 vs PER negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;partial blindness
Forge;7;Opacity;1 round;Any mirror, window, crystal sphere, or other glass object darkens and becomes opaque for the duration of the spell. This will even block sunlight from entering through windows, and prevents light spells from reflecting off mirrors. A magical object must make a 3d6 vs PWR to negate this effect.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;single object;darkens glass
Forge;8;Crepuscule;2 rounds;This spell places its target into a corpse-like state. Their breathing slows almost to a halt, their body temperature plummets, they become unconscious, and their limbs become rigid. If the target takes any damage, this effect ends immediately.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;incapacitate target
Forge;9;Ombrodolor;1 round;A black beam of concentrated darkness emanates from the caster’s fingertips and strikes the target. A damaging cold instantly freezes the blood in the target’s body, causing him great pain. If they fail the resistance, they suffer 6d6 cold damage, and are Stunned for 1d6 rounds, reattempting the resist check at the end of each round to end the Stunned condition. If the target makes the resistance, they suffer half damage and are not Stunned.;4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;damaging darkness
Forge;10;Muck;4 rounds;The targets of this spell must be standing on soft earth or sand for this spell to succeed. This spell causes the ground beneath the targets’ feet to turn into a disgusting, semi-fluid muck that attempts to suck the targets down to their deaths. During the first round of casting, anyone caught in the area who makes a resistance check of four dice against AGI is able to jump clear of the spell. During the next round, the targets are sucked downward and may attempt a resistance check of four dice against STR to escape. On the third round of casting, the resistance check is five dice against STR and the fourth round it is six dice against STR. If they do not escape before the end of the fourth round, they are totally submerged and begin to suffocate. At the end of the duration, or if the caster is interrupted at any time before the spell is complete, the ground returns to normal, interring anyone submerged in the former muck.;special*;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minute;10 + 5/F’ radius;traps targets
Forge;11;Ombrovivo;2 rounds;If the target fails the resistance check, they become cold, and nearly non-breathing. Their life force is suppressed and undetectable, and they are susceptible to anything which affects the undead.;5d6 vs PWR negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single target;hides life
Forge;12;Corruption;4 rounds;The target of this spell is in deep trouble. If they fail the resistance check, they contract a deadly, painful disease which is fatal in one week. If they make the resistance, they contract a sickness that causes them to heal at half their normal rate and is incurable by any non-magical means.;6d6 vs HEA*;touch;special*;single target;deadly sickness
Decay;1;Ombro Bolt;1 round;OmbromarkoThe caster fires a crackling bolt of darkness dealing 1d6 blight damage to the target. ;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;bolt of darkness
Decay;2;Drain Physical;1 round;SenmarkoThe caster targets a creature marked with an Ombro and selects STR, HEA, AGI, or COM. The target must make a 4d6 resist check against the target attribute, or lose 1d6 points of that attribute (this can only lower any attribute to 3) for the duration. The caster gains an Exceptional Attribute in the chosen attribute for the duration.;special*;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minute;single target;drain physical stat
Decay;3;Shadow Step;1 round;The caster teleports to unoccupied space within LOS 60 + 15/F’ and creates a shadow copy of themselves in the place where they were just standing. In dim lightning or darkness, this shadow copy will look exactly like the caster, unless an observer makes a 4d6 vs PER check. In full lighting, the shadow copy looks translucent and can be recognized as an illusion without any check.;none, 4d6 vs PER negates;self, LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;caster, 10’ radius;teleport
Decay;4;Drain Mental;2 rounds;SenmarkoThe caster targets a creature marked with an Ombro and selects INT, PER, CSE, PWR, or WIL. The target must make a 4d6 resist check against the target attribute, or lose 1d6 points of that attribute (this can only lower any attribute to 3) for the duration. The caster gains an Exceptional Attribute in the chosen attribute for the duration.;special*;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minute;single target;drain mental stat
Decay;5;Shadow Bolts;1 round;OmbromarkoThe caster is surrounded by 4 + 2/F floating bolts of crackling darkness. These bolts of darkness automatically hit, at caster’s discretion, anything within the spell's area of effect. A creature hit by a shard takes 1d6 blight damage. Any single creature can only be hit with a single Shadow Bolt per round. When fully finessed, 2 additional shadow bolts are summoned every round for the duration.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;60 + 15/F’ radius;multiple Ombro bolts
Decay;6;Dark Enervation;1 round;SenmarkoThe caster targets a creature marked with an Ombro and causes the mark to dig into the flesh of the creature, draining their vitality and empowering the caster. The creature takes 3d6 blight damage, the caster gains a temporary DP shield of the same amount. Until the spell ends, the caster can use their action to deal another 3d6 blight damage and generate a temporary DP shield in the same fashion. This temporary DP will disappear one minute after being generated.;4d6 vs PWR halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;enervate
Decay;7;Shadow Jaunt;fifth;SenmarkoThe caster targets a creature marked with an Ombro and teleports to an unoccupied space within 5’ of the target as a fifth.;none;caster, LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;self;teleport to Ombro
Decay;8;Blade of Darkness;1 round;OmbromarkoThe caster creates a floating blade of darkness within range that  lasts for the duration or until they cast this spell again. When the spell is cast, it can make an attack on a creature within 5’ of the blade, dealing 3d6 of blight damage and marking the creature with an Ombro.As a fifth, the caster can move the blade up to 30 + 10/F’ and repeat the attack against a creature within 5’ of it.;4d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minute;special*;blade of shadow
Decay;9;Shadow Puppet;1 round;SenmarkoThe caster targets a creature (which need not be marked by an Ombro) and commands it to make a simple attack against another creature within range. If the target of this spell is marked with an Ombro, the caster can force the creature to make an attack action (rolling weapon and/or maneuver skills) against a creature within range.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;force an action
Decay;10;Shadow Coronation;1 reaction*;The caster casts this spell as a reaction when a creature would be marked by an Ombro by one of the caster’s spells. The Ombromarko will grow with more marks and patterns, forming a large crown-shaped mark. When such a crowned creature is affected by a Senmarko spell, the empowered Ombro will not be removed, and instead become a normal Ombro, which is then removed by Senmarko as normal. This allows a creature to be affected by two Senmarko spells before needing to be remarked by an Ombromarko spell.;none;special*;instantaneous;single target;make Ombro stay on
Decay;11;Ombratravo;1 round;OmbromarkoThe caster gathers energy from the planes of darkness and fires a beam of crackling from the caster to the target point. All creatures within the beam are marked with Ombromarko regardless if they succeed the resistance check. The beam deals 11d6 of blight damage, or half as much on a successful resist check of 5d6 vs WIL.;5d6 vs WIL halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;4 + 1/F’ wide line;beam of darkness
Decay;12;Drain Identity;3 rounds;SenmarkoThe caster targets a creature marked with an Ombro and drains all knowledge, memories, and mannerisms of the target for the duration of the spell. The caster receives 2 dice off any checks made to impersonate the target.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F days;single target;drain identity
Discure;1;Tenebrous;1 round;Objects, plants, and shadows in the area move unnaturally to shade the caster so that they are shaded from bright light. The area of effect follows the caster as they move about. The GM determines if there is not enough material around to form a proper shade.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;20 + 5/F’ radius;shades caster
Discure;2;Dark Veil;1 round;The caster’s features become blurred and indistinct. Unless carefully examined, the caster’s face cannot be recognized by onlookers. A person specifically requesting to memorize the features of the caster must make a resistance check of 4d6 vs PER. If it fails, they will believe they succeeded, but will be unable to remember the face later.  This spell can only be cast while in dim lightning or complete darkness.;4d6 vs PER negates;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;blurs features
Discure;3;Obscure;1 round;The caster can use this spell to quickly form an obscuring mist about themself from ether. The mist appears as a semi-opaque crackling darkness, and will engulf everything in it with dim lightning. The mist is stationary once cast and can be disturbed by air movement. ;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;30 + 10/F’ radius;raises fog
Discure;4;Shroud;2 rounds;This spell creates a field of darkness about the caster, creating an aura of dim lighting, visible to others as an unnatural shade. The shroud blocks the effects of direct sunlight, and allows the caster to cast spells that ordinarily cannot be cast while in sunlight. ;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;10 + 5/F’ radius;shield from sunlight
Discure;5;Cloak;2 rounds;The caster is cloaked from the detection of any magical detection spells, if they are targeted or in the area of effect of any such detection spell, the opposing caster must make a 4d6 vs PWR to pierce the cloak. This spell can only be cast while in dim lightning or complete darkness.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;masks life force
Discure;6;Ombraresan;1 round;The priest collects the powers of darkness to renew and repair their broken body. Casting this spell allows the caster to regain 4d6 lost damage points, or reverse the effect of one critical hit upon themself. This spell can only be cast while in dim lightning or complete darkness.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;repairs damage
Discure;7;Shade;1 minute;The caster of this spell gains the ability to become a dark, Immaterial, ghost-like figure as a fifth, or return to corporeality as a fifth. If the caster is within bright light or direct sunlight, they automatically become corporeal and cannot become a shade while in bright light or direct sunlight. This spell can only be cast while in dim lightning or complete darkness.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;self;one with darkness
Discure;8;Guise;1 round;This spell enables the caster to appear to be someone else they have memlocked the appearance of. The priest visualizes a humanoid form of approximately their size and casts this spell. Shadows distort and form themselves into the form of the caster’s choosing. If the caster is within bright light or direct sunlight, they automatically are revealed. Once they are out of bright light or direct sunlight, they can reapply the guise as an action. This spell can only be cast while in dim lightning or complete darkness.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;shadow guise
Discure;9;Ombrasildo;2 rounds;A one-inch thick shield of darkness surrounds the caster, granting 1 + 1/2F ranks of Resist Light. They appear to others as a dark moving figure. For the duration, they are considered in dim lighting for the purposes of casting any spells from this group.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;shield of darkness
Discure;10;Shadow Pool;1 round;The caster sinks into a 10 + 5/F’ radius pool of shadow and becomes Immaterial. Each round, crackling dark tendrils shoot out of the pool, piercing every creature in the area of the pool. Each creature takes 4d6 blight damage. While under this effect, the caster may move their fifth, but isn’t able to attack, cast spells or use their items.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;spikes of shadow
Discure;11;Eclipse;4 rounds;The priest calls upon darkness and an enormous dark mass forms far above their head, blocking out sunlight and causing a false nightfall. Everything in the radius is considered in complete darkness, and light sources only extend half their normal distance. Magical light sources must make a 4d6 vs PWR to negate this effect.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;1 + 0.5/F mile radius;unnatural nightfall
Discure;12;Ombrovetur;1 minute;The caster recalls any place they have previously memorized. If that place and his current location are completely in darkness, they instantly teleport there. ;none;memlock;instantaneous;self;teleport to darkness
Chaos Magics;1;Chaos;1 rounds;The caster chooses a target and generates a random spell effect. This effect will last a maximum of 1 + 1/F minutes even if the duration listed is longer. ;none;LOS 100 + 20/F’;instantaneous;single target;random
Chaos Magics;2;Minor Element;1 round;The caster rolls a random elemental spell of rank 1-6 from any group except this one. The caster knows the spell that is rolled, and can choose whether or not to target that spell at either valid targets they can see within range or themself. Whatever target the caster chooses must be a valid target for the spell rolled, within that spell’s range and restrictions. The caster may finesse this spell when casting it and choose to apply those finesses in valid aspects of the spell after rolled.;special*;special*;instantaneous;special*;random elemental spell
Chaos Magics;3;Chaos Shield;1 round*;When the caster is hit by a spell or takes damage while this spell is active, they may end this spell as a reaction. If they do, they choose to either do (1d6)d6 magical damage to the person that triggered it or generate a random spell effect and the person that triggered this is both the caster and target for the purposes of that roll. The caster may have any number of Chaos Shields active at once, but may only activate one of them per round.The caster can use this spell with their reaction, but must fully finesse the spell doing so.;none;caster;10 + 10/F minutes;caster;chaotic revenge
Chaos Magics;4;Chaos Student;1 reaction*;The caster may cast this spell as a reaction to a chaos roll being made in the range. This spell causes that roll to be rerolled, the caster must take the second roll. The usual limit of only being able to spend EU up to a caster’s PWR per round applies, so someone with low PWR may not be able to cast this on some of their own Chaos Magics spells. ;none;LOS 100 + 20/F’;instantaneous;single chaos roll;change roll
Chaos Magics;5;Minor Other;1 round;The caster rolls a random divine spell or psionic ability of rank 1-6.The caster knows the spell that is rolled, and can choose whether or not to target that spell at either valid targets they can see within range or themself. Whatever target the caster chooses must be a valid target for the spell rolled, within that spell’s range and restrictions. The caster may finesse this spell when casting it and choose to apply those finesses in valid aspects of the spell after rolled.;special*;special*;instantaneous;special*;random spell
Chaos Magics;6;Control Chaos;1 reaction*;When a chaos roll is made within range, the caster may cast this spell as a reaction and change that roll by up to 1 + 1/F. The caster knows the effects that would result from this spell and is able to choose the desired effect from the options provided.;none;caster;instantaneous;single chaos roll;adjust chaos
Chaos Magics;7;Chaos Bolt;1 round;The target takes 7d6 damage of a random type. Roll 1d6 to determine the damage type as follows: 1 – acid, 2 – cold, 3 – fire, 4 – lightning, 5 – poison, 6 – roll twice, choose between two results; ignore further 6s and duplicate rolls.;4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 100 + 20/F’;instantaneous;single target;chaos damage
Chaos Magics;8;Major Element;1 round;The caster rolls a random elemental spell of rank 7-12 from any group except this one. The caster knows the spell that is rolled, and can choose whether or not to target that spell at either valid targets they can see within range or themself. Whatever target the caster chooses must be a valid target for the spell rolled, within that spell’s range and restrictions. The caster may finesse this spell when casting it and choose to apply those finesses in valid aspects of the spell after rolled.;special*;special*;instantaneous;special*;random elemental spell
Chaos Magics;9;Chaos Master;1 reaction*;The caster may cast this spell as a reaction to a chaos roll being made in the range. This spell causes that roll to be rerolled twice, the caster may choose any of the three rolls. The usual limit of only being able to spend EU up to a caster’s PWR per round applies, so someone with low PWR may not be able to cast this on most of their own Chaos Magics spells. ;none;LOS 200 + 40/F’;instantaneous;single chaos roll;change roll
Chaos Magics;10;Super Chaos;1 round;The caster chooses a target and generates a random spell effect. They may choose up to 2 + 1/F effects within 4 + 2/F of the rolled effect if they wish. They may not choose the same effect twice and must choose at least one effect. These effects will last a maximum of 1 + 1/F days even if the duration listed is longer. ;none;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;single target;controlled randomness
Chaos Magics;11;Major Other;1 round;The caster rolls a random divine spell or psionic ability of rank 7-12.The caster knows the spell that is rolled, and can choose whether or not to target that spell at either valid targets they can see within range or themself. Whatever target the caster chooses must be a valid target for the spell rolled, within that spell’s range and restrictions. The caster may finesse this spell when casting it and choose to apply those finesses in valid aspects of the spell after rolled.;special*;special*;instantaneous;special*;random spell
Chaos Magics;12;Chaos Curse;2 rounds;If the target fails their resist check, all magic that they cast or activate from magic items or creature abilities is changed to chaos magic for the duration. Each time they cast a spell, randomly determine the result as follows:  D4         Effect1          The spell does not go off and generate a random spell effect. 2          The spell goes off on the caster if they were targeting someone else or on a random person within 100’ if they were targeting themselves, even if it is caster only.3          Roll 1d12 and that ranked spell in the group they were casting goes off on the original target if they are a valid target for a new spell, or the caster if not.4          The spell functions normally, but also generates a random spell effect. ;5d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 200 + 40/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;screw with magic
Chaos Magics;13;Chaos Blade;1 minute;The damage on the affected magical weapon is randomized and improved. The bonus to the attack roll is not impacted, but the magical bonus to the damage is replaced, depending on the strength of the weapon enchantment: +1 becomes +1d4, +2 becomes +1d6, +3 becomes +1d8, +4 becomes +1d10, +5 becomes +1d12. For bonuses beyond +5, add two to the die size for each point above five. Additionally, the damage type is randomized every day between: 1 – acid, 2 – cold, 3 – fire, 4 – lightning, 5 – poison, 6 – energy;none;touch;permanent;one magic weapon;improve damage
Chaos Magics;14;Death Lottery;1 round;Whichever creature in the area of effect fails their resist check by the largest amount takes 3d6 blight damage per creature in the area of effect. If there is a tie, split the damage evenly amongst all the creatures that are tied. If no one fails the resist check, nothing happens. ;6d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 200 + 40/F’;instantaneous;30 + 10/F’ radius;luck of the draw
Chaos Magics;15;Kaosovoki;5 rounds;This spell calls 1d6 + 1/F chaos elementals to the caster to do their bidding. The elementals will serve the caster, even in combat. At the end of the spell’s duration there is a 40% chance the elementals will attempt to take the caster with them when they leave, a 40% chance they will attempt to kill the caster, and only a 20% chance that they leave peacefully. ;none;LOS 100 + 20/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;special*;chaos elementals
Chaos Magics;16;Cheap Chaos;1 minute;The target may reduce the cost of any of their spells by up to four, with a minimum cost of one. When they cast a spell with a reduced cost, roll 1d6. The result of the roll is as follows: 1 – the spell goes off normally.2 – reduce a random attribute of the spell that can be finessed by the amount of cost reduction. If it doesn’t have an attribute that can be reduced, roll again.3 – roll a die equal to the amount of units they spent on the spell and cast the spell of the rolled rank in the group they were casting from instead.4 – cast a random spell of the same rank as the spell they were trying to cast, from the same spell type elemental, divine, or psionic.5 – take 1d6 energy damage per unit of reduced cost and the spell goes off normally.6 – take 1d6 energy damage per unit of reduced cost and roll again.;willing target;touch;permanent;single target;cheaper spells
Blood Magics;1;Blood Spike;1 round;Branding, Acidic 1d6The caster fires a spike of solid blood dealing 1d6 physical, piercing damage to the target. The caster can fully finesse this spell to automatically make the Brand from it the strongest active Brand. This will demote any other such Brands to the same level as an un-finessed Blood Spike.;none;LOS 80 + 20/F’;instantaneous;single target;spike of solid blood
Blood Magics;2;Blood Analyst;4 rounds;For the duration of the spell, the caster sees blood drops in the area of effect up to 1 week old. Finesses can provide additional information about the blood: 1 - Distinguish blood from different creatures2 - Race and exact number of creatures3 - Type of weapon that caused blood loss 4 - In what direction creatures moved and with what speed;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;50 + 10/F’ radius;analyze blood sample
Blood Magics;3;Bloody Trail;1 minute;PurgingFor the duration of the spell, the caster can sense the distance and direction to the creature that left a blood sample or to the strongest Brand. The creature is located up to the nearest 300’. When fully finessed, the caster takes one die off any Survival: Tracking/Stalking checks to track the creature.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;8 + 2/F miles;track blood
Blood Magics;4;Heartseeker;1 round;The caster can sense heartbeats of other creatures within the area of effect and knows the distance and direction to these creatures. When fully finessed, damage of any Branding spell is increased by 3.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;100 + 20/F’ radius;sense heartbeats
Blood Magics;5;Acidic Blood;1 round;When the caster is damaged by a melee combat attack, drops of caster’s blood that leave their body become acidic and deal 4d6 acid damage to the attacker. Any attacks from the same attacker past the first deal 1d6 acid damage to the attacker.;4d6 vs HEA halves;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;self;acidify blood
Blood Magics;6;Sanguine Restoration;1 round;PurgingThe caster uses blood brands near them to leech off enemies’ life force. Every Branded living creature in the area takes 1d6 points of blight damage and the caster is healed for the total amount of damage dealt up to their maximum DP.;none;caster;instantaneous;20 + 5/F’ radius;recollect blood
Blood Magics;7;Blood Shards;1 round;Branding, Acidic 1d6The caster is surrounded by 6 + 2/F floating shards of solid blood. Shards automatically hit, at caster’s discretion, anything within the spell's area of effect. A creature hit by a shard takes 1d6 physical, piercing damage. Any single creature can only be hit with a single Blood Shard per round. When fully finessed, 2 additional shards are summoned every round for the duration.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;80 + 20/F’ radius;multiple blood spikes
Blood Magics;8;Crimson Pull;1 round;PurgingThis spell momentarily generates a powerful attractive force centered at the targeted point. Any Branded creature within the area must succeed a resistance check of five dice vs STR or be pulled to the center of the targeted area and knocked prone. If more than one creature fails the resist check, all affected creatures take 3d6 blunt damage as they bump into each other.;5d6 vs STR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;20 + 5/F’ radius;pull on blood
Blood Magics;9;Sanguine Armament;1 round;Branding, Acidic 1d6The caster forms part of their blood into an enchanted weapon. The weapon can be any melee or missile weapon type and is enchanted to +1 + 1/F. For missile weapons, ammo can be created for 1 DP per arrow/bolt.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;blood weapons/ammo
Blood Magics;10;Crimson Flash;1 round;PurgingFor the duration of the spell, the caster may use their fifth to teleport next to any Branded creature within 120’ of themselves, which Purges the chosen creature of their Brand at the moment of teleportation.;none;caster, LOS 120’;1 + 1/F minutes;self;teleport to Brand
Blood Magics;11;Explode Blood;1 round;PurgingThe caster’s blood inside Branded creatures within the area of effect explodes, dealing 10d6 fire/heat damage. When fully finessed, the caster may choose to exclude any number of Branded creatures from this effect.;6d6 vs HEA halves;caster;instantaneous;100 + 25/F’ radius;explode Brands
Blood Magics;12;Crimson Attraction/Repulsion;1 round;PurgingThis spell creates an area of force that affects any Branded creature. The spell is used in one of two modes declared at the time of casting:Attraction: Affected creatures inside the area cannot leave the area unless they succeed at the resistance check of six dice against their STR attribute.Repulsion: Affected creatures outside of the area cannot enter it unless they succeed at the resistance check of six dice against their STR attribute.The Brand is purged at the end of the spell’s duration if the creature attempted the resistance check. If the Brand is purged by any other effect, this spell no longer affects the creature.;6d6 vs STR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;20 + 5/F’ radius;trap/repel Brands
Blood Magics;13;Sanguine Pool;1 round;Branding, Acidic 2d6The caster sinks into a 10 + 5/F’ radius pool of blood and becomes Immaterial. Each round, crimson tendrils shoot out of the pool, piercing every living creature in the area of the pool. Each creature takes 6d6 piercing damage and the caster heals for half of the total amount of piercing damage dealt, up to their maximum DP. While under this effect, the caster may move their fifth, but isn’t able to attack, cast spells or use their items.;5d6 vs AGI halves;caster;4 rounds;self, 10 + 5/F’ radius;become deadly blood
Blood Magics;14;Hemoportation;1 round;PurgingThe spell exploits the connection between the caster and the strongest active Brand. It can be used in one of two ways:Target-to-Caster: the Branded creature sinks into a pool of blood and reappears next to the caster unless they succeed a six dice resistance check against their PWR attribute.Caster-to-Target: the caster sinks into a pool of blood and reappears next to the Branded creature. The caster may not bring other creatures with them.When fully finessed this spell functions across planes.;6d6 vs PWR negates*;caster;instantaneous;self, single creature;transport to or call Brand
Blood Magics;15;Ultimate Blood Ground;1 round;The caster opens a domain of blood magic centered around themself. The caster of the domain can choose any other living creature within the domain to pay the DP cost of any Blood Magics spell being cast. If the creature fails a 5d6 vs HEA attribute resistance check, it loses DP equal to the DP cost of the Blood Magics spell being used by the caster and the DP cost of the spell is considered paid.In addition, this effect augments other Blood Magics effects originating from the caster:Blood Spike: A spike’s base damage is increased to 2d6, the target distance is extended to cover the entire domain.Sanguine Restoration: The amount of blight damage is increased from 1d6 to 2d6.Blood Shards: A shard’s base damage is increased to 2d6, the area of effect is extended to cover the entire domain.Crimson Pull: Damage is increased to 6d6 blunt damage.Crimson Flash: Brand is not purged until the end of the spell’s duration.Explode Blood: The area of effect is extended to cover the entire domain.;5d6 vs HEA negates;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;200 + 50/F’ radius;create domain of blood
Blood Magics;16;Blood Lotus;1 round;PurgingThe spell causes the target's blood to instantly vaporize inside their body. If the target fails the resist check, their body explodes, killing them instantly, leaving flower-like ruptured remains on the ground. If the creature makes the resistance check, they take 8d6 (12d6 if Branded) fire/heat damage instead.;6d6 vs HEA partial;LOS 100 + 25/F’;instantaneous;single creature;vaporize blood
