Body;1;Beat Down;none;The T’orite may activate this spell as they are pummeling a creature. The Pummel subskill of their Wrestling (M) skill deals 1d6 per die. This leaves creatures with a black eye or a bloody nose.;none;touch;instantaneous;single target;increase punch
Body;2;Land on Feet;1 reaction*;Whenever the T’orite would take damage from falling, they may activate this spell. The T’orite takes no impact damage from falling, nor does anything that the T’orite falls on. When the T’orite lands, they will be on their feet and in their proper fighting stance. If they fall less than 20’, the Torite may make a single simple attack or move one-half of their movement rate.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;prevent falling damage
Body;3;Blind Sight;1 round;The caster can see as if they are in ample sunlight regardless of the current lighting conditions, or if the T’orite has been Blinded by physical or magical effects.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;see in the dark
Body;4;Lesser Hog Tie;1 reaction*;In the immediate free round after tackling a creature, the T’orite may activate this spell. Ropes appear in the caster’s hands and bind the target, which is considered Restrained. The target may use an action to attempt the resistance check to free themselves.;4d6 vs STR negates;touch;instantaneous;single target;tie up target
Body;5;Back to the Fight;1 fifth;The T’orite is healed for 4d6 DP, but they look to be just as hurt as before. Many T’orites wash or sew wounds closed right after this, stating that the injury was not as bad as it seems.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;heal T’orite
Body;6;Dirty Fighting;none;The T’orite may activate this spell as they are pummeling a creature. The target takes 3d6 more damage (skill) if the caster made their Wrestling (M) skill (for Pummel). This leaves creatures with a black eye or a bloody nose.;none;touch;instantaneous;single target;greatly increase punch
Body;7;Anaerobia;1 round;The T’orite acts as if they are holding their breath, and the need to breathe goes away for the spell’s duration.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;need not breathe
Body;8;Lesser Ignore Body;1 reaction*;Allows the priest to ignore all pain and pleasure effects. They are aware that the feeling is there, but can block its effects. If an effect would impose the Unconscious, Paralyzed, Frightened, or Charmed condition, they may lower the resistance check by one die.This spell can be activated when an effect that this spell protects against occurs to the T’orite, prior to attempting any resistance checks.;none;caster;12 + 3/F hours;self;help resist effects
Body;9;Hog Tie;1 reaction*;In the immediate free round after tackling a creature, the T’orite may activate this spell. Ropes appear in the caster’s hands and bind the target, which is considered Restrained. The target may use an action to attempt the resistance check to free themselves.;5d6 vs STR negates;touch;instantaneous;single target;tie up target
Body;10;Take Down;none;The T’orite may activate this spell as they are pummeling a creature. They take 6d6 more damage (skill) if the caster made their Wrestling (M) skill (for Pummel). In addition, if the target fails the resistance check, they fall Unconscious.;5d6 vs HEA*;touch;instantaneous;single target;knock out target
Body;11;Ignore Body;1 reaction*;Allows the priest to ignore all pain and pleasure effects. They are aware that the feeling is there, but can block its effects. If an effect would impose the Unconscious, Paralyzed, Frightened, or Charmed condition, they may lower the resistance check by two dice.This spell can be activated when an effect that this spell protects against occurs to the T’orite, prior to attempting any resistance checks.;none;caster;12 + 3/F hours;self;help resist effects
Body;12;Size Doesn’t Matter;1 reaction*;As the T’orite uses a skill against a target, they may activate this spell. When used, the size of the skill’s target does not impact what happens in any way. Pummeling the target makes it fall down and the caster can tackle a giant. The size of the target still has an impact on grapple attempts.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;remove size penalties
Shield/Defensive;1;Danger Sense;1 reaction*;When ambushed, the T’orite may activate this spell. The T’orite now has one free action prior to the surprise attack. The T’orite may also use this spell if someone attempts an assassination on them or someone they are guarding. The assassination attempt will be three dice more difficult.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;eliminate surprise
Shield/Defensive;2;Lesser Shield of T’or;4 rounds;If the caster is wearing a T'or war harness, light or cloth armor, this spell adds +3 to all of their defense values.A T'or war harness can have the same defense values as any Leather Light armor.;none;caster;12 + 3/F hours;self;provide defense
Shield/Defensive;3;Clean;1 round;This spell will remove all dirt, acid, bugs and any other unwanted stuff off of the caster’s person. Lice, leeches and other living beings must make the resist check to remain on. This spell also affects creatures that are grappling the T’orite.;4d6 vs PWR negates;caster;instantaneous;self;remove debris
Shield/Defensive;4;Undercover;1 round;The caster gains a chameleon-like hiding ability as long as they are wearing a T'or war harness or street wear. Attempts to see the Torite require 2 extra dice against PER.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;self;hide
Shield/Defensive;5;Ignore Temperature;1 round;When this spell is active, the caster gains two ranks of Resist Fire and Resist Cold for the duration. In addition, the caster feels comfortable in all temperatures up to the boiling point and down to freezing point of water.;none;caster;12 + 3/F hours;self;resist temperatures
Shield/Defensive;6;Escape;1 reaction*;The caster can bend and move their joints and bones to wriggle out of any binding. T’orite attempts to escape or break free from binding or the Grappled condition. They can take 2 + 1/F dice off of any attempts to break free of bonds, or can add 2 + 1/F dice to any attempt to break free from a grapple.;none;touch;instantaneous;self;escape bindings
Shield/Defensive;7;Shield of T’or;1 fifth;If the caster is wearing a T'or war harness, light or cloth armor, this spell adds +6 to all of their magic defense values.A T'or war harness can have the same defense values as any Leather Light armor.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;provide defense
Shield/Defensive;8;Evasion;1 reaction*;When the T’orite is hit with a ranged weapon, they may activate this spell. Before damage is determined, the attack is considered a miss and no damage is done.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;avoid projectile
Shield/Defensive;9;Ignore Critical Wound;1 reaction*;When the T’orite is critically struck with either a weapon or a grapple, they may activate this spell. Instead of the critical, it is simply a successful attack. ;none;caster;instantaneous;self;ignore critical hit
Shield/Defensive;10;Inner Balance;1 reaction*;When the Torite must make a CSE, INT or WIL resistance check, they may activate this spell instead of attempting the resistance check. For a single effect, they may act as if they automatically succeeded the check.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;mind over magic
Shield/Defensive;11;Armor of T’or;1 round;If the caster is wearing a T'or war harness, light or cloth armor, this spell adds +6 to all of their magic defense values and the caster gains Physical DR 4.A T'or war harness can have the same defense values as any Leather Light armor.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;provide defense
Shield/Defensive;12;True Undercover;4 rounds;The caster cannot be seen, as light bends around them. This effect is not true invisibility and can be made out with a resistance check of six dice against PER. Whenever the caster attacks someone, for each hit, that target may attempt a new resist check at one die less.;6d6 vs PER negates;caster;12 + 3/F rounds;self;make unseen
Weapon/Offensive;1;Create Holy Weapon;1 hour;This spell, along with the correct ritual, allows the T’orite to make a weapon holy; which will place a small piece of the T’orite’s soul within it. The holy weapon counts as magical for purposes of resistance or immunity to nonmagical weapons/attacks. As long as the T’orite is alive, the weapon can never be broken nor become bent.A T’orite can never have more than CSE/4 holy weapons at a time.;none;touch;instantaneous;single weapon;make holy weapon
Weapon/Offensive;2;Arm;none;The caster can call upon their holy weapon to summon it from any distance as long as they can see it or it is within 60 feet. It will fly into their hand, or appear in it if there are intervening objects.;none;LOS or 60’;instantaneous;holy weapon;rearm self
Weapon/Offensive;3;Harm;none;When the Torite attacks with their holy weapon, they may activate this spell. The caster’s holy weapon gets an additional +2 to hit and damage (bonus).;none;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;holy weapon;increase damage
Weapon/Offensive;4;Throw;none;A priest can throw their holy symbol at an opponent with intent to harm. When the T’orite throws their holy weapon, they may use this spell. They then use their combat instead of his ranged modifier for the throw. Damage inflicted will be the striking damage, not the thrown damage of the holy weapon. The distance a T’orite can throw their holy weapon is equal to their STR times 5 feet.;none;touch;instantaneous;holy weapon;throw weapon
Weapon/Offensive;5;Lesser Flashing Blast;none;When the T’orite hits an opponent with their holy weapon, they can activate this spell to add 4d6 points of light damage (skill) to a single hit.;none;touch;instantaneous;holy weapon;add divine damage
Weapon/Offensive;6;Summon Weapon;1 round;The T’orite can call upon their holy weapon to summon it from any distance ordimension. The weapon will appear in their hand at the end of the round.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;call holy weapon
Weapon/Offensive;7;Ghost Killer;1 fifth;After the T’orite casts this spell, the T’orite can hit Ethereal and Immaterial creatures with their holy weapon and ignores the Spirit Armor of a target creature.;none;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;holy weapon;hit extraplanar beings
Weapon/Offensive;8;Harmful;none;When the Torite attacks with their holy weapon, they may activate this spell. The caster’s holy weapon gets an additional +4 to hit and damage (bonus).;none;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;holy weapon;increase damage
Weapon/Offensive;9;Deplete Energy;1 reaction*;When the T’orite strikes an opponent with their holy weapon, they may activate this spell. If the opponent fails a resistance check of 5d6 vs PWR, they lose 4d6 + 3/F units of the caster’s choice.;none;touch;instantaneous;holy weapon;drain units
Weapon/Offensive;10;Summon T’orite;1 fifth;If the Torite can see their holy weapon and is within 1000’, they can teleport themself to it using this spell.;none;LOS 1000’;instantaneous;holy weapon;teleport self
Weapon/Offensive;11;Flashing Blast;1 reaction*;When the T’orite hits an opponent with their holy weapon, they can activate this spell. This spell functions as Lesser Flashing Blast, but the damage is increased to 8d6 of light damage (skill).;none;caster;instantaneous;holy weapon;add divine damage
Weapon/Offensive;12;Mayhem;1 reaction*;The Torite activates this spell as a reaction when they successfully strike a target with their holy weapon. This attack is considered a critical hit.;none;touch;instantaneous;holy weapon;critically strike target
Mind;1;Obey The Law;1 day;The T’orite gets in touch with the “Will of T’or”. They know the law of the land they are currently in and if the government is just or unjust. A T’orite must purchase this spell first to become a T’orite. Once a T’orite casts this spell on themself, it is permanently active as long as the priest is connected with T’or. Having this spell active gives the T’orite one die off Barristry skill checks. ;none;caster;permanent;self;know the law
Mind;2;Good Cop;1 round;After casting this spell, the T’orite looks harmless and trustful. People viewing the T’orite will only get the resistance check if the T’orite acts out of character for the spell effect. This spell may give a one die bonus to Psychology: Diplomacy checks to establish rapport with people.;3d6 vs PER negates;caster;2 + 1/F hours;LOS;seem trustful
Mind;3;Lesser Locate Opposition;1 round;Any person who the caster perceives as opposed to them cannot approach without the priest being aware of their presence unless they succeed at the resistance check. In most cases this will include criminals, assassins, etc.;3d6 vs WIL negates;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;120’ radius;locate opposition
Mind;4;Bad Cop;1 round;After casting this spell, the T’orite looks mean and dangerous. People viewing the T’orite will only get the resistance check if the T’orite acts out of character for the spell effect. This spell may give a one die bonus to Psychology: Interrogation checks to intimidate people into doing things for the T’orite. ;4d6 vs PER negates;caster;2 + 1/F hours;LOS;seem dangerous
Mind;5;Trance;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the Torite can take one die off all INT attribute and resistance checks. This has no effect on INT-based skill checks.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;increase thought
Mind;6;Memorize;1 round;For the duration of the spell, any events the caster observes are memlocked in the caster’s mind. They will not forget them through normal means, unless they choose to remove the memlock.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;remember events
Mind;7;Watchfulness;1 round;The priest uses this spell prior to going to sleep for the night. Instead of sleeping, the T’orite falls into a trance where they are aware of the events happening around them. They may come out of this trance at any time. If they are in the trance for the full rest period, they gain all of the effects from sleeping, such as DP and unit regeneration. ;none;caster;single resting period;self;stay awake
Mind;8;Blending;1 round;When the T’orite casts this spell, they appear to anyone failing the resistance check not to be dressed as a T’orite. Anyone failing the resistance check would see what would be expected to be found in the environment. The spells Bad Cop and Good Cop would additionally impact what the targets think they see. Bad Cop may make the T’orite appear as an unruly gang member to outside observers, while Good Cop may make the T’orite appear to be a good samaritan.;4d6 vs CSE negates;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;LOS;disguises T’orite
Mind;9;Locate Opposition;1 round;Any person whom the caster perceives as opposed to them cannot approach without the priest being aware of their presence unless they succeed at the resistance check. In most cases this will include criminals, assassins, etc.;4d6 vs WIL negates;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;120’ radius;locate opposition
Mind;10;Lure;1 round;This spell attracts an opponents' attention and fills them full of hate for the caster. If the target fails the resistance check, the target cannot take any actions other than attempt to harm the caster for the duration of the spell. The target can reattempt the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on a success.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 30’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;lure target
Mind;11;Copy Cat;1 round;When this spell is cast on a creature, if the creature fails the resistance check, the caster takes on the target’s appearance. This does not change any of the caster’s abilities, only their appearance.;5d6 vs PWR negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single being;mimic target
Mind;12;Purify Self;1 round;This spell allows the T’orite to purify his body, mind, and soul of all active magical and physical effects that aren’t the “Will of T’or.” All poisons are negated, all diseases are cured, and all active spell effects under rank 12 that aren’t from T’or groups are removed (including beneficial ones).;none;caster;instantaneous;self;remove all effects
Arrest;1;Manacles;1 round;This spell will summon a pair of manacles in the T’orites hand. These have the strength of iron, and are fitted to the needed specifications at the time. Finesses will change the materials as follows: 1 – Steel, 2 – Adamantite, 3 – Adamantite with Terisium lining (drain 2 units per round), 4 – Iron, but can be used on Ethereal creatures. ;none;caster;1 + 1/F days;self;summon manacles
Arrest;2;Protect;1 reaction*;When a defenseless bystander or civilian that is under the T’orite’s protection (i.e. under the T’orite’s jurisdiction or ward) is subject to an attack, the T’orite may activate this spell to cause that attack to miss.;none;LOS;instantaneous;single target;protect civilian
Arrest;3;Tranquilize;1 fifth;The T’orite makes a motion of throwing and launches a tranquilizer dart out of their hand. If the target fails the resistance check, the target fails Unconscious for one minute, until they take any damage, or are shaken awake. ;3d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;sleep darts
Arrest;4;All Points Bulletin;1 round;The target of this spell that fails the resistance check is marked as wanted by the T’orite. Any T’orite viewing the target will instantly know that it is T’or’s Will for this individual to be brought to justice. This spell mainly gives other Torites insight into the specific description of the person involved, so spells that alter the appearance of the target can prevent a T’orite from identifying them. If the Background Check spell is used on the target, regardless of disguises, they will be identified as wanted if this spell is active on them;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 60’;6 + 2/F hours;single target;mark as wanted
Arrest;5;Background Check;1 round;This spell grants the T’orite knowledge of previous arrests, citations, and trials associated with the individual in question. This does not give information on crimes committed that have not yet been attributed to this individual. This spell has no obvious visible components, and the target is unaware they have made a resistance check. The information obtained comes from the records kept by the T’orites. ;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 60’;instantaneous;single creature;know criminal history
Arrest;6;Citation;1 round;Upon writing a ticket appropriate to a crime witnessed, the T’orite can use this spell to record it with the central T’orite headquarters. The citation will forever be associated with the person to which it was given until they pay the fine or serve the sentence for the citation in question (subject to the laws of the land, if they are deemed just).;none;touch;instantaneous;single creature;give ticket
Arrest;7;Incarcerate;1 minute;Using this spell, the T’orite can teleport the target manacled prisoner that is under the T’orite’s protection (a person that is arrested and is being brought to justice) to a known prison. This spell can only be used when the T’orite is not in combat with the prisoner being targeted.;4d6 vs PWR negates;touch;instantaneous;single prisoner;place in prison
Arrest;8;Shockwave;1 reaction*;The T’orite may activate this spell when they successfully hit with their holy weapon. The attack deals damage to the target as normal, and the hit creates a shockwave that extends out through and behind the target. Creatures in the area (except for the target) that fail the resist check will take the damage of the original hit.;4d6 vs AGI negates;caster;instantaneous;10’ x 10’ cone;shockwave
Arrest;9;Frisk;2 rounds;Upon failing the resistance check, all illegal materials (defined by the local laws, if they are just), and weaponry are removed from the target, and placed in a bag, in the possession of the T’orite.;5d6 vs WIL negates;touch;instantaneous;single creature;confiscate
Arrest;10;Defang;2 rounds;Using this spell, the target manacled prisoner is unable to cast spells or attack for the duration, unless they are defending themselves. ;5d6 vs PWR negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single target;make harmless
Arrest;11;Serve;1 minute;This spell will reverse any damage that occurred during the process of arresting the manacled target. This spell will not bring a target back to life, but can be used to save a Dying target. ;none;touch;instantaneous;single target;treat humanely
Arrest;12;Taze;1 round;A small spark releases from the caster's finger at the target. If the target fails the resistance check, their central nervous system is interrupted, and they are Magically Paralyzed for the duration. The target can reattempt the resistance check each time they take damage, ending the effect on a success.;5d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;take down
Righteousness;1;Parry;1 reaction*;When a T’orite is wielding his holy weapon and is hit with a melee attack, they may activate this spell to increase their combat defense value for a single attack by 2 + 1/F.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;cause attack to miss
Righteousness;2;Endure;1 reaction*;When the T’orite performs a feat of strength (i.e. any attribute check against STR or any skill based on STR), the T’orite may continue the task without having to make any further checks against it by activating this spell. This could include holding a heavy door open, swimming very long distances, or climbing a rope. The spell stays in effect until the T’orite stops performing the action. ;none;caster;special*;self;continue feat of strength
Righteousness;3;Loyalty;1 reaction*;When the T’orite is standing next to an ally that is hit with a targeted spell effect or attack, the T’orite may activate this spell. Instead of the intended target, the T’orite is hit with the spell effect or attack and must make any resistance check required and will take all of the damage. The T’orite may not use any other T’or spells on this incoming attack.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;take hit
Righteousness;4;Fast;2 rounds;When the T’orite casts this spell, their movement rate is increased by 20 + 5/F’. In addition, the T’orite’s metabolism is doubled, which will shorten the effect of non-magical poisons, potions, and drugs in their system. This will also accelerate the effect of lethal poisons, so it should be used wisely.;none;caster;6 + 2/F hours;self;go faster
Righteousness;5;Disarm;none;When the Torite successfully hits a target with their holy weapon, they may activate this spell. Instead of taking damage from the hit, the target must roll a contested STR check against the T’orite with the T’orite getting 2 extra dice. If the T’orite wins, the target is disarmed (if possible) and their weapon is thrown 10 feet in a random direction. If the T’orite gets a critical hit, the number of extra dice is increased by the critical multiplier, but nothing else occurs as a result of the critical hit. ;none;caster;instantaneous;self;disarm opponent
Righteousness;6;Consciousness;1 reaction*;Anytime the T’orite would go Unconscious, the T’orite may activate this spell. They can ignore the effect that would have caused them to lose consciousness. ;none;caster;instantaneous;self;stay conscious
Righteousness;7;Subdual;1 reaction*;When the Torite attacks a target with their holy weapon, they may activate this spell. The T’orite then makes a single attack against the target using a blunt part of their weapon. The T’orite does not use their combat modifier on this attack, but may use other skills in combination with this attack. On a successful hit, the target must make a contested roll with the opponent using their HEA versus the T’orite using their STR + 2 extra dice. If the T’orite wins, the target is knocked to the ground and Unconscious (if possible) for 1d6 + 2/F minutes.;none;touch;instantaneous;holy weapon;subdue opponent
Righteousness;8;Ignore Armor;1 reaction*;When the T’orite makes an attack with their holy weapon, they may activate this spell. For a single attack, the T’orite may ignore all armor defense values of their opponent.;none;touch;instantaneous;holy weapon;ignore defense
Righteousness;9;Distract;1 reaction*;Prior to the end of any combat round, the T’orite may activate this spell. Their opponents are momentarily distracted and the T’orite (and their party) automatically wins the next initiative round. If multiple competing groups use this spell, their initiative is rolled as normal. ;none;caster;special*;self;win next initiative
Righteousness;10;Pin;1 reaction*;When the T’orite successfully grapples a target, they may activate this spell. When the target attempts to break the grapple, the T’orite may roll 4 + 2/F additional dice on the contested STR roll for as long as they have the target Grappled.;none;caster;special*;self;pin opponent
Righteousness;11;Retry;1 reaction*;If the T’orite attempts a skill check and fails, they may activate this spell. They may reroll the skill check taking the second result. This spell can also be used on contested rolls the T’orite has to make when using a T’or spell to reroll them.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;attempt skill again
Righteousness;12;Fight On;1 reaction*;If the T’orite would be killed or knocked Unconscious and Dying while fighting, they may activate this spell upon themself. With this spell in effect, they may continue fighting on, but must spend 6 divine units at the start of each turn to keep this effect up. Once the T’orite runs out of divine units, they immediately die (if they would have been killed) or fall Unconscious and begin Dying.;none;caster;special*;self;continue after death
True Justice;1;Quick Burst;1 reaction*;The Torite activates this spell as a reaction prior to initiative being rolled. The T’orite goes first in the combat round regardless of other “quick” abilities (except for another T’orite also using this spell). The T’orite cannot use any Weapon/Offensive T’or spells during this round of action.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;act first
True Justice;2;Furious Insult;1 round;While casting this spell, the T’orite directs an insult at an opponent. The opponent is so taken aback by the insult that they must direct their next combat round of action at the T’orite.;none;LOS 240’;instantaneous;single creature;infuriate target
True Justice;3;Boring Action;1 reaction*;The T’orite activates this spell while performing a single action. Anyone that observes the action must succeed at a resistance check of five dice against WIL or they will have no interest in the action regardless of what it is and ignore it. Examples include breaking a window, bludgeoning someone, or dropping poison into someone’s drink.;special*;caster;special*;self;make action boring
True Justice;4;Fast Attack;1 round;The T’orite casts this spell and can move double their full movement rate toward an opponent and may attack with full fury when they get to them even if it is past their fifth movement rate. The effect lasts for as long as the T’orite is moving directly toward the designated opponent.;none;caster;special;self;speeds to opponent
True Justice;5;Share Fate;1 reaction*;The T’orite activates this spell as a reaction when they are hit by a weapon attack (before damage is rolled) from an opponent. All damage done to the T’orite is equally done to the attacking opponent. This only applies to a single source of damage.;none;caster, LOS;instantaneous;self, single target;mirror damage
True Justice;6;Courageous Attack;1 round;When casting this spell, the T’orite chooses a number of defense values to sacrifice. For the duration of the spell, all of the T’orite’s defense values are reduced by this amount, but a single modifier of their choice is increased by the same amount. The defense values that are sacrificed can come from active spell effects including other T’or spells.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;self;sacrifice defense to hit
True Justice;7;Calming;1 round;The Torite simply touches a target and casts this spell. If the target is willing or fails the resistance check, their fears, forebodings, and frights are calmed for the duration of the spell allowing them to act rationally. If the target is affected by the Frightened condition, it is removed, or if the condition comes from a magical source, the target can immediately reattempt the resistance check at one less die. The creature then gains one rank of Resist Fear for the duration.;5d6 vs WIL negates;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;calms fear
True Justice;8;Lay Down The Law;2 rounds;All within hearing of the T’orite that casts this spell and fails the resistance check will obey the law as dictated by the T’orite. The T’orite can state actions such that the affected targets must follow, but all actions must be within both the law of the land and within the Will of T’or. ;5d6 vs WIL negates;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;clear hearing;shape behavior
True Justice;9;Risky Attack;none;The T’orite activates this spell before attempting to strike an opponent with their holy weapon. If they successfully hit, the hit is considered a critical hit. If they miss, the magic backfires causing them to suffer a critical hit with a base damage of 1d6 of the weapon’s damage.;none;touch;instantaneous;holy weapon;force critical
True Justice;10;Flash Attack;1 reaction*;The T’orite uses this spell on any target that they can see within range committing an illegal act, within both the law of the land and within the Will of T’or. The T’orite then teleports in front of the opponent and may take a full round of action. ;none;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;self;get to opponent
True Justice;11;Mulligan;1 reaction*;If the T’orite attempts a resistance check and fails, they may cast this spell. They may attempt the resistance check a second time. ;none;caster;instantaneous;self;retry resistance
True Justice;12;Refresh;1 reaction;The T’orite heals 10d6 DP up to their DP maximum and repairs any limbs or other body parts they may have lost during the fight.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;heal self
