Fosiantau (History);1;Journal;4 rounds;This spell recalls a personal journal and writing materials from a pocket dimension, placing them in the caster’s hands. When the duration expires, the journal and pens return to the dimension, which can only be accessed by the same caster.;none;none;2 + 1/F hours;1 journal;recalls diary
Fosiantau (History);2;Replay;1 minute;The caster concentrates on a memory, causing a vision of it to appear in the air before them. All present can see the portrayed memory. The vision will be as accurate as the caster’s memory, and cannot normally be falsified.;none;LOS 5’;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 10/F’ radius;creates vision
Fosiantau (History);3;Scribe Speak;1 round;The caster must be touching a piece of parchment while casting this spell. The target’s words are inscribed directly onto the parchment for the duration of the spell.;none;LOS 20 + 10/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;one parchment;inscribes speech
Fosiantau (History);4;Object Delve;10 minutes;This spell allows the caster to see the history of an object. A series of short visions appears to the caster, starting with the most recent events and proceeding backwards ten years. Each finesse increases the time period by a factor of ten: 1 finesse for 100 years; two for 1,000; etc. The more intense the past happenings, the more detailed the visions. These visions can be shown to others with the Replay spell.;none;touch;instantaneous;single object;recalls past
Fosiantau (History);5;Rebind;1 minute;This spell restores the binding of a book or tome to a like new condition. It does not improve the condition of the pages, but it will keep them from falling out.;none;touch;instantaneous;one book;restore binding
Fosiantau (History);6;Place Delve;10 minutes;This spell is the same as Object Delve, except it works on a location or building rather than a small object.;none;touch;instantaneous;single location;reveals past events
Fosiantau (History);7;Map;1 minute;The caster must first prepare a piece of parchment of sufficient size. They then mark their current location and a few of the surrounding landmarks. After casting this spell, their trail for the next six days is inscribed on the parchment. The caster must know the direction they are traveling and have their sight for the spell to function.;none;touch;1 + 1/F weeks;one parchment;records trail
Fosiantau (History);8;Speech Delve;10 minutes;Similar to Object Delve, this spell must be cast after the recitation of a holy writ. The spell then shows the past of the original speaker. Since many holy writs are very ancient, it may take all four allowed finesses to succeed.;none;none;instantaneous;one holy writ;reveals past of original speaker
Fosiantau (History);9;Seal It;1 minute;A brief blue glow appears around a container, which must be held by the caster while chanting this spell. From then until the spell is Revoked, or the container is opened, it is impervious to all non-magical damage from elemental forces, i.e., water, fire, crushing, falling, etc.;none;touch;permanent;one container;seals against the elements
Fosiantau (History);10;Person Delve;10 minutes;This spell is similar to Object Delve, except that it works on a living, intelligent, and willing target. Since the magic depends on the memory of the materials making up the person and not on the person’s memory, it is not blocked by amnesia or mental illness.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single target;reveals past
Fosiantau (History);11;Time Delve;1 hour;This spell allows the caster to know, within 5%, the age of any material, object or person.;special;touch;instantaneous;single target;reveals creation time
Fosiantau (History);12;Grave Delve;10 minutes;This spell is similar to Person Delve, except it may be cast on a corpse or skeleton. Delving extremely ancient bones may require several finesses.;none;touch;instantaneous;single corpse;reveals past
Mensa (Mind);1;Truth Scan;2 rounds;Any statement heard by the caster will be followed by a gong noise, audible only to the caster, if the speaker believes the statement to be a lie. This magic cannot detect lies of omission or partial truths.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;hearing;reveals lies
Mensa (Mind);2;Mind Scan;2 rounds;The caster poses a specific question, then casts this spell while touching the target (who cannot be themself). The willing target will give the answer, even if it was hidden from them by amnesia or most forms of mind magic (GM’s discretion);willing target;touch;instantaneous;single target;remembers fact
Mensa (Mind);3;Combat Scan;1 round;While casting this spell and touching a willing or unconscious target, the caster gains the target’s basic fighting abilities, for the duration of the spell. The caster fights using the target’s combat modifier.;special;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;fight like another
Mensa (Mind);4;Missile Scan;1 round;While casting this spell and touching a willing or unconscious target, the caster gains the target’s missile abilities for the duration of the spell. The caster shoots using the target’s ranged modifier.;special;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;shoot like another
Mensa (Mind);5;Location Scan;2 rounds;The caster poses a single question, which the target can hear, know, and can be answered by naming or describing a location. If the target fails the resistance check, the caster pulls the answer directly from the target’s mind. This includes directions to get there if needed, but no information about what is there, or what blocks the route.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;instantaneous;single target;remembers location
Mensa (Mind);6;Grapple Scan;1 round;While casting this spell and touching a willing or unconscious target, the caster gains the targets grappling abilities for the duration of the spell. The caster grapples using the target’s grapple modifier.;special;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;grapple like another
Mensa (Mind);7;Object Scan;2 rounds;The caster poses a single question, which the target can hear, know, and can be answered by naming or describing an object. If the target fails the resistance check, the caster pulls the answer directly from the target’s mind.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;instantaneous;single target;remembers object
Mensa (Mind);8;Language Scan;2 rounds;While casting this spell and touching a willing or unconscious target, the caster temporarily gains the target’s knowledge of a particular language. For the duration of the spell the caster can speak and understand this language as well as the target does.;special;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single target;speak unknown language
Mensa (Mind);9;Person Scan;2 rounds;The caster poses a single question which the target can hear, know, and which can be answered by naming and describing a person. If the target fails the resistance check, the caster pulls the answer directly from the target’s mind.;5d6 vs WIL negates;touch;instantaneous;single target;remembers person
Mensa (Mind);10;Skill Scan;1 rounds;While casting this spell and touching a willing or unconscious target, the caster gains the target’s knowledge of a particular skill, for the duration of the spell. The caster can use this skill as well as the target does.;special;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single target;use another’s skill
Mensa (Mind);11;Knowledge Scan;2 rounds;The caster poses a single question which the target can hear. If the target knows the answer and fails the resistance check, the caster pulls the answer directly from the target’s mind.;5d6 vs WIL negates;touch;instantaneous;single target;remembers fact
Mensa (Mind);12;Spell Scan;2 rounds;While casting this spell and touching a willing or unconscious target, the caster gains the target’s spell abilities for the duration of the spell. The caster can use any spell of rank 12 or less which the target was able to use from one spell group specified at the moment of casting. The caster must use their own units to power these spells, and the units must be of the right elemental/divine/psionic type.;special;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;use another’s spell knowledge
Mezuri (Measure);1;Heat Gauge;1 round;While this spell is in effect, the caster can accurately measure the surface temperature of any object that they can see and is within the targeting of the spell;none;LOS 20 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single surface;measures temperature
Mezuri (Measure);2;Micro Sight;1 round;The caster can closely examine objects and see details that could be missed withnormal vision. They can magnify this vision by 4 + 1/F times. The object must be within six inches of the caster’s eyes and illuminated by full sunlight (or its equivalent) for this spell to work properly.;none;LOS 0.5’;1 + 1/F minutes;self;slightly magnify vision
Mezuri (Measure);3;Bat Ear;1 round;The caster can hear noises 2 + 1/F times louder than normal. The caster is more susceptible to sound based attacks, adding one die to any sound based resistance checks. In addition, the caster subtracts one die from PER checks based on hearing and an additional die for every two finesses used to increase sound volume.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;multiplies sound
Mezuri (Measure);4;Time Gauge;1 round;The caster designates two keywords while casting this spell, usually “start” and “stop.” When they speak the first, a mental timer is started, and when they speak the second, it stops. The spell announces to them alone the elapsed time to the nearest tenth of a second.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;accurately measures time
Mezuri (Measure);5;Macro Sight;1 minute;This spell allows the caster to send their sight straight upwards (but not through solid objects) and get an overhead view with themselves at the center, much like a map. This does not affect lighting or visibility, but may be combined with other sight spells.;none;LOS 200 + 50/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;self;get the big picture
Mezuri (Measure);6;Eagle Eye;2 rounds;This spell increases the accuracy of the caster’s sight, allowing them to see objects as if they were 8 + 2/F times closer than they are. Atmospheric and light conditions may modify this spell (GM’s discretion). This also allows the caster to subtract one die  from PER attribute checks based on vision.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;none;magnify vision
Mezuri (Measure);7;Span Gauge;2 rounds;The caster concentrates on any object they can see. They will know the distance to that object within one tenth of an inch.;none;LOS 10 mets;instantaneous;self;measures distance
Mezuri (Measure);8;Component Sight;2 rounds;While this spell is effect, the caster’s vision changes so that colors represent differentmaterials. They will be able to recognize any material they have previously seen with this spell.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;LOS 100 + 20/F’;determines composition
Mezuri (Measure);9;Unicorn Tongue;3 rounds;This spell greatly enhances the caster’s sense of taste. It increases their enjoyment of food, and allows them to recognize the composition of any food which they have tasted with this spell. They will also know by taste if a food or drink contains poison.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;heightened taste
Mezuri (Measure);10;Weight Gauge;3 rounds;While touching the target, the caster will know its weight to within a tenth of a pound. This will not work on objects larger than three tons, and will return nonsense answers in a different gravity field.;none;touch;instantaneous;single object;measures weight
Mezuri (Measure);11;Elemental Sight;4 rounds;The type and strength of elemental magic active within the area becomes visible to the caster for the spell’s duration. Fire magic is red, earth magic is green, water magic is blue, and air magic is yellow.The caster may take one die off Arcana: Identify Spell and Arcana: Identify Magical Device.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;LOS 10 mets;see magic
Mezuri (Measure);12;Fox Nose;4 rounds;While this spell is in effect, the caster has a highly heightened sense of smell. They will be able to trail animals and people, and can detect many poisons by their smell. This also allows the caster to subtract one die from PER checks based on smell.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;increased smell
Sciovorto (Knowledge);1;Lantern;1 round;This spell creates enough light, which emanates from the caster’s hand, to allow the caster to comfortably read texts.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;3’ radius;creates reading light
Sciovorto (Knowledge);2;Intone;2 minutes;Knowledge is passed down through the memorization of sacred spoken writ, and a priest's worth is measured by their memory of these writs. The caster uses this spell with a particular writ in mind. They then go into a trance-like state and can recite the writ in the voice of the original speaker. They are aware of what they are saying and what is going on around them during this trance, and they can break out of it at any time.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;caster;speaks memorized knowledge
Sciovorto (Knowledge);3;Clear Sight;1 round;The target of this spell can see through any illusions or misdirections of a mechanical or magical nature.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single target;see through deception
Sciovorto (Knowledge);4;Drill;2 rounds;This spell puts the caster into a light trance, making it easier for them to memorize sections of written text. This works on ordinary writing, but not sacred spoken writs.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;one text;memorize writing
Sciovorto (Knowledge);5;Impart;1 minute;Touching the target while casting this spell allows the caster to copy a holy writ into the target’s mind. Holy writ can only be transferred freely with the consent of both parties.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single target;transfer holy writ
Sciovorto (Knowledge);6;Clear Thought;1 round;This spell cancels any charm or coercion spells in effect on the target if they make a resistance check.;4d6 vs WIL accepts;touch;instantaneous;single target;cancels charms
Sciovorto (Knowledge);7;Infuse;1 minute;Uttering the key phrase of a holy writ while casting this spell imparts its true meaning to those who are listening and attempting to understand.;willing targets;caster;instantaneous;hearing;causes understanding
Sciovorto (Knowledge);8;Render;1 minute;The priest can conjure a vision of an exact replica of any one page they have ever read. They can copy this to parchment while the vision lasts.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;reproduce page
Sciovorto (Knowledge);9;Clear Perception;1 round;The target of this spell is devoid of all emotions for the spell’s duration;4d6 vs WIl negates;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;suppresses emotions
Sciovorto (Knowledge);10;Ingrain;1 minute;Speaking a holy writ while casting this spell causes any targets who fail the resistance check to use the writ as the driving force behind their existence. All targets, whether they make the resistance check or not, will remember the casting and the actions performed under its sway.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 100 + 25/F’;2 + 1/F days;10 + 3/F people;redirect drive
Sciovorto (Knowledge);11;Clear Reason;2 rounds;While this spell is in effect, the targets gain two ranks of Exceptional INT for the duration.;4d6 vs WIL negates;multitouch;30 + 10/F minutes;touched creatures;increases INT
Sciovorto (Knowledge);12;Transfer;10 minutes;This spell allows the priest to pull the knowledge out of one mind and transfer it to another. The blanked mind immediately dies, and the receiving mind goes unconscious for 1d6 hours. This spell is only used when a priest is about to die, and then only on another priest of the caster’s Archive. To use it any other way is sacrilege, and is grounds for immediate and irrevocable excommunication.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single target;transfers all knowledge
Sekreto (Secrets);1;Keep Secret;2 rounds;When this spell is cast, the caster thinks of a specific piece of knowledge. For the duration of the spell, any spell effect that attempts to reveal this information or determine that the caster even possesses this information will fail. This includes spells that detect lies and spells that extract knowledge. In the case of extracting a large amount of knowledge, this specific piece of information will be excluded.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;keep a secret
Sekreto (Secrets);2;Encode/Decode;1 minute;This spell is cast on a message that the caster can understand or a message that has previously been encoded with this spell. When encoded, the message text simply changes into different mundane text. The caster states a “key” when encoding this message. When cast on an encoded message, the caster states the key and the mundane message will revert to the original message. If this spell is cast on a message that hasn’t been encoded or the wrong key is used, the message will change into gibberish and the message will be unrecoverable. A message encoded with this spell will not detect as magical.;none;touch;instantaneous;single message;coded messages
Sekreto (Secrets);3;Hide Lies;1 round;When the caster is under the effect of this spell, other spells that attempt to detect lies are less effective. If the spell has no resistance check, this spell simply fails to detect any lies told by the caster. If the spell does have a resistance check, the caster gets two dice off of the resistance check. In either case, the person using the detection spell doesn’t realize that this spell is in effect.;none;caster ;10 + 5/F minutes;self;hide all lies
Sekreto (Secrets);4;Hide Scent;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the caster lets off no odor that could be detected by other creatures. This prevents tracking the caster by odor or detecting other things from them using their odor.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;hide smell
Sekreto (Secrets);5;Hide Life Essence;2 rounds;When this spell is cast, the caster’s life force and soul are hidden from the view of any other spells or senses that can see them. Any attempt to detect life, a soul, or anything that directly derives from either of these will not detect the caster. The caster will not detect as undead, but will not detect as having life either. Magic that affects the soul will still function on the caster, such as Deliver and Soul Blade.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;hide life/soul
Sekreto (Secrets);6;Hide Message;1 round;This spell can be used on any message in the caster’s possession even if they aren't directly touching it at the time. The message content is changed to seem to be a mundane message of little consequence. The message can be as short as a note to as large as a book, but must be a single message. The message will not appear to be magical under detection spells.;none;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single message;make hidden
Sekreto (Secrets);7;Hide Aura;3 rounds;This spell allows the caster to hide any type of aura they may produce that is detectable by other spells. The caster can name 1 + 1/(2F) types of auras they wish to hide when the spell is cast. Examples of auras include: divine, elemental, captivation, motivation, emotional, etc. Any spell that doesn’t have a resistance check, will not detect any of the named auras. If the spell has a resistance check, the caster gets two dice off.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;hide auras
Sekreto (Secrets);8;Hide Magic;1 minute;This spell is cast on a single item that is magical or has a magical effect active on it. For the duration of the spell, any attempt to detect magic on the item is blocked and the item is detected as non-magical. In addition, revocation attempts on the item are more difficult, unless this spell is revoked first. This results in the spell effect getting an additional 4 + 2/F dice on Counterspell rolls.;none;touch;12 + 3/F hours;single item;hide magical aura
Sekreto (Secrets);9;Hide Object;1 minute;This spell is cast upon an object in the caster’s hand. The object disappears into a pocket dimension that follows the caster around. After the duration is up, or the caster drops this spell, the object reappears in the caster’s hand.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single item < 50 lbs.;hide object
Sekreto (Secrets);10;Hide Self;2 rounds;When the caster has this spell in effect on them, their body is hidden from physical or magical senses. They create no sound and cannot be heard when speaking (though if they cause something to make a sound, such as breaking a twig on the ground, it will still make a sound). They do not have an odor, and seeing them requires extra 2 dice from normal (if they aren’t trying to hide, it is easy to see them).;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;hide self
Sekreto (Secrets);11;Hide Casting;special ;This spell is used in unison with another spell that is being cast. This causes the caster to appear to not be casting, even when they are making the hand and verbal motions of casting. The caster must still spend the entire casting time of the hidden spell and may only move one-fifth of their movement while casting. All other restrictions for casting spells must be followed.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;hide own casting
Sekreto (Secrets);12;Mental Shielding;5 rounds;When the caster has this spell in effect, knowledge cannot leave the caster’s mind by any means. For example, knowledge cannot be extracted via spells, the caster cannot project mental thoughts and any abilities that can read minds will fail on the caster. Basically, this spell makes the caster’s mind unreadable and also prevents the caster from leaking knowledge via creature abilities or other spell effects that may be active on them. It may prevent other spells from functioning on the caster.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;prevent mind leaks
Subterfugo (Subterfuge);1;False Witness;2 rounds;For the duration of the spell, anyone viewing the caster’s face will have a difficult time remembering any details about it. Unless the caster’s face is studied, witnesses will remember a different face of someone they also saw around the same time as the caster unless they make the resistance check.;5d6 vs PER negates;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;disguise face
Subterfugo (Subterfuge);2;Minor Distraction;1 round;When this spell is cast, the caster thinks of a short sound in their head, such as glass breaking or something falling onto the ground. During the duration of the spell, the caster can then activate the spell (ending it) and cause the sound to play where the spell was originally cast.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;LOS 5’ ;distracting sound
Subterfugo (Subterfuge);3;Jam Lock;1 round;The caster uses this spell on a single lock. For the duration of the spell, the lock is two dice more difficult to open using the Opening Locks skill. If the caster finesses the spell four times, it will require two successful attempts in a row to successfully open the lock.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single lock;make lock harder
Subterfugo (Subterfuge);4;Lies;1 round;For the duration of the spell, all statements told by the caster are detected as lies via most methods that can be used to detect them, such as magic, scents, body language, etc.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;self;all lies
Subterfugo (Subterfuge);5;Hide in Plain Sight;2 rounds;After casting this spell, the caster will look like a nondescript person appropriate to their location. This will alter their face and clothing, but not their body type or race. Anyone that observes the caster can attempt a resistance check of 3 dice against PER to see through this disguise, though each die the caster succeeds at in a Disguise skill check will increase the resistance check by an equal amount.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;create disguise
Subterfugo (Subterfuge);6;Drunk Yet Sober;1 round;When this spell is active, the caster can drink 2 + 1/F times as much alcohol without suffering the ill effects from it. This would allow the priest to act drunk while being sober to gain information, for example.;none;caster;6 + 2/F hours;self;make less drunk
Subterfugo (Subterfuge);7;Vanish;1 round;The caster disappears in a puff of smoke and reappears a short distance away. The location the caster appears must be within the caster’s line-of-sight or a place the caster has been within the last 10 + 5/F minutes (and within the target range).;none;100 + 20/F’;instantaneous;self;poof!
Subterfugo (Subterfuge);8;False Document;1 minute;This spell allows the priest to create a forged document based on a valid one. This can be used to create a document with the caster’s name and picture on it, for example. In addition, the spell can duplicate magical effects on the document in ranks up to the number of dice the caster makes in the Forgery skill. The forged document will not appear magical (unless it was meant to be). At the end of the duration, the forged document vanishes.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single document;forge document
Subterfugo (Subterfuge);9;Persuasive Presence;2 rounds;When the caster is under the effect of this spell, their very presence becomes comforting to those around them. This allows the caster to take two dice offof any social skill rolls they make under the effect of this spell. They must havethe social skill in order to get dice off of the roll.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;more persuasive
Subterfugo (Subterfuge);10;Major Distraction;1 minute;When casting this spell, the caster thinks of a significant distraction that could occur, such as a thief breaking into a window or creature roaming into a campsite. During the duration of the spell, the caster can activate the spell (ending it) and cause the distraction to occur. The distraction will be illusionary but will seem quite real to people viewing and hearing it. Anyone interacting with the distraction (attempting to fight it, fix it, etc.) can attempt a resistance check of four dice against CSE to realize the full nature of the distraction.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;LOS 5’;large distraction
Subterfugo (Subterfuge);11;Alter the Past;2 minutes;This spell is used in an area to alter the events that can be obtained from any form of past scrying spell. The caster visualizes the proper time and day while casting this spell along with an alternate version of events that can last for no longer than 10 + 5/F minutes. Any attempts to scry that time and day at the location where the spell is cast will see the alternate version of the past.;none;caster;6 + 2/F days;100 + 50/F’ radius;alter past scrying
Subterfugo (Subterfuge);12;False Target;1 round;This spell creates a false version of the caster several feet away from their actual position and makes the caster effectively invisible for the duration. The false version of the caster is solid and takes damage as if it were the caster. It has the same defense values as the caster and can resist spells as the caster, but does not have any offensive capabilities. If this false target is “killed,” it falls over dead and remains until the spell duration expires.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;create false target
Subterfugo (Subterfuge);;Second Life;1 hour;This spell creates a clone of the caster that will go about the standard day-to-day business of the caster. The clone will not do any actual work, but will simply appear to an outside observer that they are doing work and can act as an alibi for the caster. The caster always knows where the clone is and can direct it to be in certain locations (assuming they would be normal for them to be in). The clone has no combat ability and cannot “adventure” with the priest. The clone does have the same amount of DP as the caster, can be injured, and heals at the same rate as the caster. If the clone dies, the spell is negated. If the caster touches the clone, they can send them to a pocket dimension and can bring them back by concentrating for two rounds.;none;caster;2 + 1/F months;self;create alibi
