Memory;1;Seal Memory;1 round;This spell allows the caster to focus on a specific memory, being a location, object, or person, and seal the memory in their mind for the spell's duration. The memory cannot be altered or removed from the caster’s mind unless this spell is first revoked. After the duration ends, the memory fades from the mind as under normal conditions. Duration is dependent on finesses:0 – one hour, 1 – one day, 2 – 1 week, 3 – one month, 4 – one year. A mind can have a maximum of INT/4 seals at one time.;none;caster;special;self;keep memory
Memory;2;Show Memory;1 round;This spell allows the caster to determine if the target holds a specific memory in their mind. This can include anything from an event, person, or place. This does not allow the caster to know exactly what the target’s memory is, just that some memory exists and the extent of the memory.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;instantaneous;single creature;points out memory
Memory;3;Remember;2 rounds;This spell will allow the target to fill in holes of a past memory. This can be used to restore recently forgotten locations or objects. This spell cannot restore long forgotten memories or memories that have been altered by magic.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;instantaneous;single target;bring back memory
Memory;4;Gain Memory;2 rounds;This spell allows the caster to copy a specific memory from the target’s mind to their mind. This memory can include anything from an event, person, or place. The target retains the memory taken.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;instantaneous;single creature;takes memory
Memory;5;Hide Memory;2 rounds;For the duration of this spell, a specific memory is protected from all magical mind- probing techniques. Any attempt to find this memory in the caster’s mind comes up empty.;none;caster;1 + 1/F days;self;hides memory
Memory;6;Give Memory;2 rounds;This spell allows the caster to give a willing target a specific memory. The memory acts as normal in the target’s mind and can be obtained by another through magical means.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single target;give target a memory
Memory;7;Memory Scan;2 rounds;This spell will act as the Show Memory spell, except that it will work on all creatures within the spell’s area. This spell cannot be used to find invisible or ethereal creatures.;5d6 vs WIL negates;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;LOS 30 + 10/F’;scan for memory
Memory;8;Mind Compare;3 rounds;For the duration of this spell, all statements that the target makes are compared with the target’s mind. If they do not match, the caster is alerted. If the memory is magically hidden, it is not considered to exist in the target’s mind for the purpose of this spell.;5d6 vs WIL negates;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single creature;detect lies
Memory;9;Mind Block;2 rounds;For the duration of this spell, any attempt to magically gain or alter the memories of the caster fails. In addition, the person attempting to gain information from the caster’s mind must make a resistance check of five dice against WIL or suffer 2d6 of mental damage.;special;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;magical mind block
Memory;10;Alter Mind;3 rounds;This spell allows the caster to implant a new memory or alter an existing one in the target’s mind. Hidden memories can be altered, as long as the caster is aware that the memory exists in the target’s mind. The target is unaware anything happened and the proper memories can only be restored through magical means.;5d6 vs WIL negates;touch;permanent;single creature;alters target’s mind
Memory;11;Mind Probe;1 round;This spell allows the caster to probe the target’s mind for memories. If the target fails the resistance check, the caster may extract a single memory from the target, as with the Gain Memory spell, each round during the duration. The caster must maintain contact with the target during the spell's duration or the spell is canceled.;5d6 vs WIL negates;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;probes mind
Memory;12;Forget All;2 rounds;This spell will wipe the target’s memory clean. They cannot remember who they are, where they are from, or what they are doing. All spells and skills are forgotten, while languages are maintained. This information can only be returned to the target through powerful magic. The use of this spell is frowned upon by the priesthood unless its use is unavoidable.Priests can only prepare a single spell of each rank, the priest must decide between this spell and the other rank 12 spell when finishing a rest period.;6d6 vs WIL negates;touch;permanent;single creature;forget everything
Memory;12;Remember All;2 rounds;Remember All restores memories lost from natural or magical amnesia. Any magical effect below rank 12 blocking the target’s memories is revoked. Any regular memory loss is negated. Any spells and skills lost due to memory loss are restored. This does not negate the effects of Philter of Regression or similar ways of reassigning experience.Priests can only prepare a single spell of each rank, the priest must decide between this spell and the other rank 12 spell when finishing a rest period.;6d6 vs WIL negates;touch;instantaneous;single creature;remember
Wisdom;1;Rational;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the target gains one rank of Exceptional CSE. ;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;increase CSE
Wisdom;2;Irrational;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the target gains one rank of Inferior CSE.;4d6 vs CSE negates;touch ;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;decrease CSE
Wisdom;3;Weapon Aware;1 round;For the duration of the spell, weapon skill checks for a single weapon, in which the caster has a weapon skill of at least 2, are reduced by one die.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;increase weapon skill
Wisdom;4;Repair;2 rounds;When touching a broken object, the caster will instantly know exactly how to fix it and what tools and materials are required. The caster will need to gather these items to fix the object. High tech or otherworldly items cannot be repaired with this spell. Strange or rare items may require finesses to understand.;none;touch;instantaneous;single object;know proper repairs
Wisdom;5;Skillful;2 rounds;This spell will allow the caster to focus on previous lessons of any skill. For the duration of the spell, one skill of the caster’s choice, which the caster has at 2 or more, can be made at one die less than normal. This spell can only be in effect for one skill at a time and additional casting of the spell will only increase the duration of the spell already in effect.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;self;increases a skill
Wisdom;6;Focus;2 rounds;This spell clears the caster’s mind of all unnecessary distractions. All INT, CSE, and PERchecks can be reduced by one die for the spells duration. ;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;allow caster to focus
Wisdom;7;Distract;2 rounds;This spell creates lots of little distractions in the target’s mind. All INT, CSE, and PER checks must be increased by one die for the duration of the spell.;4d6 vs PER negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;distracts target
Wisdom;8;Raise Wisdom;2 rounds;This spell allows the target’s mind to function more efficiently when performing a mental task. All INT, CSE, and PER skill checks are reduced by one die if the target has the skill at 2 or higher; otherwise it will take one die off the skill default.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;increase skill
Wisdom;9;Complete Rationalization;4 rounds;For the duration of the spell, the caster takes 2 dice off all CSE resistance checks.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;make very rational
Wisdom;10;Decrease Wisdom;3 rounds;If the target of this spell fails the resistance check, all of their skills are only half aseffective as normal for the duration of the spell.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;reduces skills
Wisdom;11;Share Wisdom;2 rounds;For the duration of the spell, the target can draw on 1 + 1/F skills that the caster has learned (not skills the caster magically knows). The target gains the skills at the same rank as the caster, but is bound by the skills associated attribute and cannot use the skill higher than that. The target can only have a single instance of a Vormaxian skill sharing spell active on them at a time. If this spell is deferred, the skills become part of the deferred spell, as such, it cannot be used to transfer skills from someone other than the caster.;4d6 vs PWR negates;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single living target;shares skill
Wisdom;12;Take Wisdom;2 rounds;For the duration of the spell, the caster can draw on 1 + 1/F skills that the target has learned (not skills the target magically knows). The caster gains the skills at the same rank as the target, but is bound by the skills associated attribute and cannot use the skill higher than that. The caster can only have a single instance of a Vormaxian skill sharing spell active on them at a time. If this spell is deferred, the skills become part of the deferred spell, as such, the skills must be specified when the spell is deferred.;5d6 vs PWR negates;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single living target;steals skills
Language;1;Scan Language;1 round;When casting this spell, the caster will know the type of language that is being spoken by a specific target within the hearing range of the caster. This will not allow the caster to speak the language, just know the type of language being spoken. The spell may require finesses if the language is unknown to the area or other circumstances provided.;none;caster;instantaneous;hearing;determine language
Language;2;Alter Language;1 round;When casting this spell and touching a target to be spoken to, this spell will allow the caster and the target to converse in a language known to each, but people around will not be able to determine what language they are speaking in, nor understand what they are saying. Magical means of language detection will require finesses. This spell can be finessed to make it more difficult to decode using magical methods.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;hide language
Language;3;Speak Language;2 rounds;This will allow the caster to gain knowledge of a language being spoken and known, by type, to the caster. The caster must know the type of language being spoken before this spell will be effective. This spell will give the caster a 6 skill in the language. The spell may require finesses if the language is unknown to the area or other circumstances provided.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;hearing;speak language
Language;4;Share Language;2 rounds;This will allow the caster to transfer the knowledge of any language known to them to a single target that they touch. Languages acquired by magical means will not transfer; languages enhanced by magical means will only transfer at their pre-enhanced level.A target can only hold one shared language in their mind at a time.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;share language
Language;5;Gain Language;3 rounds;This will allow the caster to take the knowledge of a single language from the target. If the target fails the resistance check, a language of the caster’s choice is transferred from the mind of the target to the mind of the caster. The caster can speak and write the language exactly like the target. The target retains the language. The caster must know a target has a specific language, by type, before this spell will work.;4d6 vs INT negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;steals language
Language;6;Know Language;3 rounds;This spell will allow the caster to focus on a specific language type and be able to speak and write that language. The caster does not have to hear the language at the time of casting, but must have heard it spoken prior to casting and must know the language type. This will give the caster a language skill of 9 in the language. The spell may require finesses if the language is unknown to the area or other circumstances provided.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;know a language
Language;7;Read Language;3 rounds;This spell will allow the caster to focus on any written language and know how to translate it into a language they know. The caster does not have to know the type of language they are trying to read. The spell may require finesses if the language is unknown to the area or other circumstances provided.;none;caster ;10 + 5/F minutes;self;read any language
Language;8;Master Speaker;1 round;This spell allows the caster to increase their skill in a language already known by them to grandmaster level. When casting this spell, the language skill of one language known to the caster can be increased to 18 for the duration of the spell.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;increase language skill
Language;9;Read All;3 rounds;This spell will give the caster the ability to read anything, in any language, which they may come across for the duration of the spell. When they look at any written language, they will know the translation in a language that they currently know. Languages translated by this spell do not need to be typed to be translated.;none;caster;1 + 1/F days;self;translate all written
Language;10;Understand All;3 rounds;This spell will give the caster the ability to understand all spoken language that they may hear for the duration of the spell. When they hear a language they normally wouldn’t understand, their mind will translate it to a language they know. Languages translated by this spell do not need to be typed to be translated. This spell will not translate written languages.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;understand spoken
Language;11;Show Language;4 rounds;This spell will allow the caster to show any language known to the caster to the targets of the spell. Languages acquired by magical means can be shared with this spell. A target can only hold one shared language in their mind at a time.;none;multitouch;2 + 1/F hours;intelligent creatures;show a language
Language;12;Wipe Language;2 rounds;This spell will allow the caster to completely wipe a language out of the target’s mind. The target will not retain any knowledge of a language previously known to them. The caster must know the target has a specific language, by type, before this spell will work on that language.;5d6 vs INT negates;touch;permanent;single target;erase language
Thought;1;Genius;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the target gains one rank of Exceptional INT.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;increase INT
Thought;2;Stupid;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the target gains one rank of Inferior INT.;4d6 vs INT negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;decrease INT
Thought;3;Clear Thought;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the caster may subtract one die from all INT based skill checks. The caster must have a skill at two or more to get a die off of the skill check; otherwise they will get a die off of the skill default.;none;Caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;think clearly
Thought;4;Solve Problem;1 round;When faced with a logically solvable problem, like a mathematical problem, where all information needed to solve the problem is available, the caster will instantly be aware of one correct solution to the problem, which may not be the easiest or even a probable solution. This will not give the caster the method of solving the problem, just a solution.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;solve a problem
Thought;5;Read Thought;1 round;When casting this spell and touching a target, the caster will be aware of the target’s current prevailing thought. If the target succeeds at the resistance check, their mind blocks the magic and the caster can read nothing.;4d6 vs INT negates;touch;instantaneous;single creature;read target’s thoughts
Thought;6;Instill Thought;1 round;When this spell is cast upon a target, the caster may instill a thought into the target’s mind. The target will take this thought as their own and, depending on the closeness of the thought to their current situation, may act upon it. If the target succeeds at the resistance check, their mind blocks the thought completely.;4d6 vs INT negates;LOS 10 + 5/F’;instantaneous;single creature;give thought
Thought;7;Project Thought;3 rounds;For the duration of the spell, the caster may project their thoughts to all of the targets touched during the casting of the spell. The caster may turn on and off the thought projection for the spell’s duration. The caster’s primary thought is the one projected.;willing targets;multitouch;2 + 1/F hours;intelligent creatures;share thoughts
Thought;8;Return Thought;1 round;This spell will return all control of the target’s mind back to the target. Any thought altering effects are instantly negated.;none;LOS 30 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single creature;returns thought
Thought;9;Confuse;2 rounds;For the duration of this spell, the target will not be capable of any logical decisions. All actions taken by the target must be randomly determined. After the spell’s duration, the target returns to normal and remembers the actions they took while confused. If the target succeeds at the resistance check, their mind blocks the spell.;5d6 vs INT negates;LOS 30 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;confuse target
Thought;10;Mass Instill;2 rounds;This spell acts as the Instill Thought spell only on multiple targets.;4d6 vs INT negates;LOS 30 + 15/F’;instantaneous;10 + 5/F’ radius;give thought
Thought;11;Alter Thought;2 rounds;This spell allows the caster to read the current thought of the target and slightly change it. The first round of casting will allow them to read the thought, and the second round is used to change the thought. If they are cut off in the middle of casting, they will still be able to read the target’s thoughts and will lose the spell units for casting the spell. If the target succeeds at the resistance check, their mind is able to block the spell completely.;5d6 vs INT negates;LOS 20 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single creature;alter a thought
Thought;12;Break Thought;2 rounds;This spell will make the target unable to think. The target is unable to make any decisions or think logically for the duration of the spell. All INT based attribute and skill checks automatically fail. The target can be led around by another, but cannot think about moving anywhere on their own. The target can also be told to do things by people that they trust.;6d6 vs INT negates;LOS 20 + 10/F’;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;disable thinking
