Strength;1; Strong;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the target gains one rank of Exceptional STR.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;increase strength
Strength;2;Weakness;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the target gains one rank of Inferior STR.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;reduces strength
Strength;3;Strength Bolt;1 round;This spell causes a bolt of strength to hit the target. If the target fails the resistance check, all of the muscles in their body begin to spasm and they fall to the ground for the duration of the spell. They make reattempt the resistance check every round, ending the spell on success.;4d6 vs STR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;target spasms
Strength;4;Strength Barrier;2 rounds;This spell will create a barrier that may not be passed through except by succeeding at the resistance check. Failing the resistance check causes the person to be pushed back 10 feet from the barrier. The caster may pass through the wall freely.;4d6 vs STR passes;LOS 30 + 10/F’;2 + 1/F hours;100 + 20/F square’;create wall
Strength;5;Lend Strength;2 rounds;For the duration of the spell, the target will have the STR attribute of the caster, including the sharing of exceptionals.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;shares strength
Strength;6;Detect Strength;2 rounds;For the duration of the spell, all creatures in the area will glow with brightness relative to their STR attribute. Exceptionals in STR will change the tint of the glow. This spell cannot be used to see invisible or ethereal creatures.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;LOS 100’;shows strengths
Strength;7;Enhance Strength;2 rounds;All within the area that succeed at the resistance check, including the caster, have their strength enhanced for damage. All damage from successful hits with a  hand-to-hand weapon is increased by 1d6.;3d6 vs STR accepts;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/2F’ radius;enhances damage
Strength;8;Strength Blast;2 rounds;This spell causes all creatures within the area to be blasted by the caster’s STR. They are thrown back 30’ and fall to the ground. If there is an obstacle in the way they may take damage as decided by the GM.;5d6 vs STR negates;caster;instantaneous;30 + 10/F’ radius;blast creatures in area
Strength;9;God Strength;2 rounds;This spell will temporarily give the caster the strength of a god. The caster will have a STR attribute of 24 and may subtract three dice from all STR attribute and resistance checks.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;self;give godlike strength
Strength;10;Strength Weapon;1 round;This spell allows the caster to enchant a weapon of their choice with their strength. For the duration of the spell, the weapon will act as an enchanted weapon of the caster’s strength divided by 5 plus one per Exceptional STR. (A caster with 16 STR and an Exceptional STR can create a +4 weapon, 16/5 + 1).A weapon can be enchanted to a maximum of five.;none;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single weapon;lend STR to weapon
Strength;11;Strength Shield;1 round;This spell creates an invisible, unmovable shield around the caster. Anyone trying to enter this shield must succeed at the resistance check, or they are knocked prone. Anyone within the radius is unaffected, and can get out of the shield without a problem.;5d6 vs STR negates;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;5 + 1/F’;strong shield
Strength;12;Take Strength;2 rounds;Upon failing the resistance check of this spell, the target’s strength is reduced to one for the duration of the spell. Exceptional values no longer apply to any STR attribute or resistance checks. The target falls to the ground and is unable to perform any actions, including casting, as the target doesn’t have the strength to move their hands or speak.;6d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;2 + 1/F hours;single target;take away strength
Appearance;1;Attractive;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the target gains one rank of Exceptional COM. ;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;improve looks
Appearance;2;Ugly;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the target gains one rank of Inferior COM.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;make target ugly
Appearance;3;Friends;1 round;If the target fails the resistance check, they instantly regard the caster as a friend. They will not attack them, nor will they allow others to attack them. If the caster attacks the target after casting the spell, the effect is canceled.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;target likes caster
Appearance;4;Hide Self;2 rounds;This spell will disguise the caster’s features to everyone. This does not disguise the caster as another person, but distorts features so that later descriptions will be incorrect. If the resistance check succeeds, the observer can see through the distortions.;5d6 vs PER negates;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;hides appearance
Appearance;5;Frighten;1 round;This spell changes the caster’s appearance into the most ugly, disgusting thing ever seen. Anyone within the area that can see the caster must succeed at the resistance check or spend the spell’s duration trying to escape the caster.;4d6 vs WIL negates;self;4 + 2/F rounds;LOS 30 + 10/F’;scare targets
Appearance;6;Agree;2 rounds;If the target fails the resistance check, they will be awed by the caster’s appearance and will accept as truth any statement the caster makes when casting the spell, unless it goes completely against the target’s motivation. After the duration ends, the target will be unaware of the spell effects.;5d6 vs WIL negates;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;target will agree
Appearance;7;Disguise;4 rounds;This spell will completely change the caster’s appearance to look like someone else. In order to look like a specific person, the caster must have memorized the person’s appearance. To see through the disguise, an observer must first be suspicious, and then must the resistance check. The spell only changes appearance; voice and mannerisms are not changed.;5d6 vs PER negates;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;change appearance
Appearance;8;See True Form;4 rounds;When cast, this spell will allow the caster to see the true appearance of all individuals within the area of effect that fail the resistance check. This includes seeing through disguises, magical or physical, masks, or any other appearance altering or hiding device or magic. This does not allow the caster to see invisible or ethereal creatures.;5d6 vs PWR negates;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;LOS 60 + 10/F’;see real person
Appearance;9;Hypnotize;5 rounds;This spell must be cast on a stationary target. Using this spell, the caster looks into the target’s eyes and hypnotizes them. They can give the target commands to perform and keywords to go along with the commands. If the target fails the resistance check, they are the caster’s to command for the spell’s duration.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 5’;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;hypnotize target
Appearance;10;Shape Change;3 rounds;This spell will allow the caster to take on any shape they want. Size is limited to a 25% increase or decrease. The caster can choose any object, creature, or character that they have seen to take the shape of, but they cannot touch or attack anything or the effect is canceled.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;changes shape
Appearance;11;Decrease Age;1 minute;This spell will lower the outside age of a willing target by 10 + 5/F years. The target’s age cannot be lowered below 20. This spell can only be used on a willing target. This does not actually lower the physical age of the target, they just appear younger.;willing target;touch ;instantaneous;single target;lowers age
Appearance;12;Alter Form;4 rounds;This spell can be used for good or evil. The target of this spell permanently, or until revoked, has their appearance changed. This change can include any type of visual-based bodily features, but cannot alter the height of the target.;6d6 vs WIL negates;touch;permanent;single target;alter appearance
Health;1;Healthy;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the target gains one rank of Exceptional HEA.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;increases health
Health;2;Sickness;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the target gains one rank of Inferior HEA.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;temporary sickness
Health;3;Improve Health;1 round;This spell is used to improve the target’s physical health. When touched by the caster, the target heals (3 + 1/2F)d6 damage points. This spell will only function on creatures that have a physical body.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single creature;heals target
Health;4;Destroy Health;1 round;If the target fails the resistance check, the target’s body can no longer heal itself for the duration of the spell. This will prevent all forms of natural healing from working including potions and regeneration.;4d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 1/F days;single creature;target cannot heal
Health;5;Detect Health;1 round;This spell allows the caster to know, with certainty, how close to death any creature within the spell’s radius is. All creatures within the area emit a glow. The brightness of the glow is relative to how much damage a creature can take before death. This spell does not allow the caster to see invisible or ethereal creatures.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;LOS 60’;detect healthiness
Health;6;Cure Disease;1 round;This spell will cure any non-magical, bodily disease infecting the target. All effects of the disease are instantly cured. If the disease is magical, the target may reattempt any associated resistance checks.;willing targets;touch;instantaneous;single target;cures disease
Health;7;Repair Body;2 rounds;This spell will repair all magical damage to a body. This includes broken bones, pierced organs, and any cuts the target may have. If the damage is recent, half the damage points lost from a single repaired injury are recovered. This spell will only function on creatures that have a physical body.;none;touch;instantaneous;single target;mends body
Health;8;Health Alert;3 rounds;For the duration of this spell, the caster will be alerted when any target touched upon the casting of the spell is extremely injured and in need of repair. If a target’s damage point total falls below 20% of the target’s maximum total or the target makes an unconsciousness roll, the caster is alerted.;willing targets;multitouch;2 + 1/F hours;touched creatures;alert to low health
Health;9;Keep Healthy;1 round;The target’s body, blessed by Zepherin, gains almost metallic shine and becomes much more resistant to physical damage. For the duration of the spell, the target subtracts 4 + 1/2F points from all sources of physical damage.;willing target;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;target “invincible”
Health;10;Take Health;1 rounds;This spell will transfer 5d6 damage points from the target to the caster. If the target makes the resistance check, the amount of damage points transferred is halved.;5d6 vs WIL halves;touch;instantaneous;single target;steals health
Health;11;Miracle Cure;2 rounds;This spell will cure the creature of all bodily disease, reattach and fix all limbs and organs, and return the target’s body to excellent health. All adverse bodily conditions are repaired and the target gains 10d6 DP, up to their maximum DP. This spell will only function on creatures that have a physical body.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single creature;massive heal
Health;12;Share Health;2 rounds;For the duration of Share Health, any HEA attribute or resistance check is rolled against the highest HEA attribute value between affected creatures. Only natural HEA and Exceptional HEA are used when calculating the highest effective attribute value. All affected creatures roll their checks separately.As an action, the caster may transfer any amount of damage points between two willing affected creatures.;willing targets;multitouch;1 + 1/F minutes;touched creatures;your our health
Health;13;Breath of Life;3d6 vs PWR negates;touch;instantaneous;singe dead body;restore life
Speed;1;Agile;1 round;For the duration of this spell, the target gains one rank of Exceptional AGI.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creatures;increase agility
Speed;2;Cramp;1 round;For the duration of this spell, the target gains one rank of Inferior AGI.;4d6 vs HEA negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;slows down target
Speed;3;Speedup;1 round;For the duration of this spell, the caster’s movement is increased by 20’ per round or they can perform one extra attack per round, but not both in a round.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;speed up caster
Speed;4;Slowdown;1 round;For the duration of this spell, the target’s movement and attack rates are reduced by 25%.;4d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;slows target
Speed;5;Dodge;1 round;For the duration of this spell, all of the caster’s magic defense values are increased by 2 + 1/F.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;increase DVs
Speed;6;Silence;2 rounds;For the duration of this spell, the caster is given the ability to move silently. The caster takes 1 die off all Stealth checks for the duration.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;caster moves silently
Speed;7;Quickness;1 round;For the duration of this spell, the caster is very quick to react in combat. The caster is effectively given the Quickness creature ability.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;caster reacts quickly
Speed;8;Clumsy;2 rounds;This spell makes the target extremely clumsy. If the target fails the resistance check, for every action that requires movement they wish to perform during the duration of the spell, they must roll an attribute check of five dice against AGI. If they fail the check, the action is a failure. This includes spell casting using the hands, movement, and attacking. This doesn’t include speaking or verbal casting.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;makes target clumsy
Speed;9;Speed All;1 round;For the duration of this spell, all of the targets touched during the casting of the spell have their movement increased by 20’ per round or can perform two extra attacks per round, but not both in a round.;none;multitouch;1 + 1/F minutes;touched targets;speed up targets
Speed;10;Slow All;3 rounds;For the duration of this spell, all of the targets in the area are reduced to half their normal movement and attack rate.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 3/F’ radius;slows all in area
Speed;11;Clumsy All;2 rounds;This spell is an area of effect version of Clumsy. All within the area are affected as if they were hit with the Clumsy spell.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;10 ‘ radius;makes lots clumsy
Speed;12;Max Speed;1 round;This spell combines Dodge, Quickness, and Speed All on the caster only. For the duration of the spell, all of the spells’ effects are with the caster.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;speed up caster
