Amulet of Magical Protection;Focal Object;The nomad chooses one type of magic (elemental, divine, psionic, spiritual) when the incant is activated. An amulet, when worn on a chain around the neck, near the heart, and activated as a fifth, can absorb part of any magical effect caused by the chosen magic type. While active, the user gains (1/1/2/2/3/3) ranks of Resistance against the chosen magic type. This effect lasts for 30 minutes per the incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For every two dice made in the skill,  the user may stress a single rank of Resistance granted by this incant, without ending the incant’s effect.;1,000;1,000;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Ancestral Guidance;Invocation;Using their prized possession as a catalyst, the nomad calls upon their guardian spirit to assist the nomad with their plethora of past lives experience. Choose a non-combat skill per rank of the incant. For the next hour the nomad takes one die off of all check involving chosen skills.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For every die made in the skill, increase the duration by 30 minutes.;1,500;-;Arcana: Channeling;nomad’s prized possession;
Assimilation;Invocation;A nomad need not feel out of place after using this incant, because they are able to read subtle physical and mental clues from the strangers about them and adapt to their culture. The nomad must spend 12 hours divided by the incant rank around the culture, learning customs, language, etc. Afterwards, the incantor’s mannerisms will easily be mistaken for a native.;Secondary Effect (Mimicry): For every dice made against this skill (up to the incant rank), the incantor can gain one rank of the most commonly spoken language of the culture. If this incant is refreshed the previous language is lost, and the nomad can only gain 1 language per Assimilation incant.;250;-;Acting: Mimicry;none;
Ferret Object;Invocation;The nomad touches a person, who then concentrates on an item they have lost within the last two days per incant rank. If the visualization is clear and the item is within 100 feet per incant rank, the nomad hears a sound which will show them the direction and distance to the item.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): Multiply the distance to find the item by the number of dice rolled against this skill.;100;250;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Green Touch;Tattoo;The nomad creates a mark on their thumb, and lures an animal spirit to the tattoo. This marking enchants their thumb such that when they snap their fingers, it will glow green and impart life onto plants it touches. At rank one, this incant can restore a wilted flower, the second would restore a small bush, the third a single tree. Rank four would restore a 10' radius circle of plants and each higher rank would increase the radius by 10’. This can only be used to help a still living plant, dead plants are unaffected.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): When the nomad snaps their fingers, they may attempt a skill check against this skill. Providing all the nutrients required, a one die check will double the growth rate, a two die check will quadruple this rate, and a four die check will make the plant grow within a few rounds. This can only be done to a seed or seeds which the incant can normally target.;100;250;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Living Staff;Focal Object;This staff, when implanted into the ground, will grow into a shelter made out of a tree. When growing, the house will accommodate its surroundings into the shelter, preventing any damage to any structures or creatures. The rank of the staff will determine how big the structure of the tree house is, accommodating a number of people per rank comfortably. This takes one minute per rank of the incant to make the shelter, and one minute to return it to staff form.;500;500;none;wooden staff;
Luck Amulet;Focal Object;The creation of this amulet allows its possessor to alter events of chance. As a reaction to any event (any dice roll) that affects them or they are aware of, the user calls upon the power of the amulet. The result can be changed by one for each incant rank (up to the maximum or minimum possible die roll). Once used, the amulet must be recharged to be used again.;Secondary Effect (Astrology): By divining the position of stars and planets the nomad can increase the power of the incant. For every two dice made, the roll for one extra creature can be affected in the same direction. The roll must be triggered by the same event. For example, with a four dice check, a rank 4 Luck Amulet may affect 3 creatures attempting a resistance check against the same area of effect spell.;1,000;1,000;Arcana: Astrology;none;
Robes of Style;Focal Object;Taking a newly spun and sewn robe, the nomad endows it with the ability to change shape, size, and color to match their tastes and desires. This robe can change appearance a number of times per day equal to the incant rank. ;500;500;none;none;
Spirit Barricade;Focal Object;The nomad infuses an article of jewelry to create this talisman that hampers spirits to which they do not have a bond with. Any spirit attempting to interact (including things like possession, talking, attacking, etc.) with the incantor must attempt a (3/3/4/4/5/5)d6 vs WIL resistance check. If they fail, the spirit will stop the current interaction they are attempting, as long as the user does not want this interaction, and cannot attempt it again for a number of hours equal to the incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): Each die made against this skill prevents the spirit from interacting with the nomad for another hour.;1000;1000;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Spirit Call;Invocation;The nomad uses this ritual to call forth a spirit from the Kurago to manifest itself in the material plane. Those present must concentrate on them and not disturb the area with negative thoughts. If the spirit fails a (3/3/4/4/5/5)d6 vs WIL resistance check, or is willing, it is pulled to the nomad and then must manifest itself, either visibly as a ghost, through sound, or through possession of the incantor. This ritual lasts for an hour, and the spirit will follow the incantor around.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): Each die made against this skill allows the ritual to last an additional hour.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Stones of Connection;Focal Object;The nomad gathers a number of nearly identical small pearls. They may use as many pearls as the incant rank plus one. Once the incant is complete, when someone picks up one of these pearls, they will know where any of the other pearls are. If someone else is holding a pearl, both can tell who the other is if they are familiar with that person, if not, they just know someone else is touching the pearl. This connection only works as long as they are on the same plane.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): With a two die check against this skill, those holding the pearl will know if another holding the pearl dies. With a four die check, those holding the pearls will know if the others are in danger.;250;250;Arcana: Channeling;small pearls;
Whispering Call;Invocation;The nomad goes into a trance with a target or targets in mind and speaks to their guardian spirit for up to 1 minute. The guardian spirit then carries the message on to a number of targets up to the rank of the incant. This message is passed through the Kurago, which allows the message to cross planes. The full message is then whispered or spoken to the target. The incant allows only the target to hear the message. The message takes 10 minutes to reach the targets.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): With a four dice check against this skill, the targets may send a short reply within the same restrictions.;250;500;Arcana: Channeling;none;
