Antidote;Mixture;When consumed, the drinker may reattempt any checks against poisons currently affecting them. They gain (1/2/2/3/3/4) ranks of Resist Poison. This effect lasts for 30 minutes per the incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Alchemy): For every two dice made in the skill, the user may stress a single rank of Resistance granted by this incant, without ending the incant’s effect.;500;500;Arcana: Alchemy;bezoar;
Arithmetic Snuff;Mixture;When sniffed through the nose, this powder awakens latent areas in the user’s brain. The user gains almost precognitive ability to calculate the trajectory of enemy’s strikes. They gain magical DVs equal to the incant rank. This effect lasts for 30 minutes per the incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Mathematics): For every two dice made in the skill, any critical hit against the user gets -1 penalty to its roll.;500;500;Science: Mathematics;none;
Bloodboil Brew;Mixture;This crimson flask when imbued causes the drinker to enter the state of fervor. Their melee attacks deal one extra damage (skill) per rank of the incant, but all incoming piercing, edged or blunt damage is also increased by the same amount. This effect lasts for 10 minutes per the incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Alchemy): For each die made in the skill, the damage susceptibility is reduced by 1.;500;500;Arcana: Alchemy;scarlet thorns plant;
Courage Draught;Mixture;This mixture focuses the mind and endows the user with greater courage to face any task. They gain (1/2/2/3/3/4) ranks of Resist Charm. This effect lasts for 30 minutes per the incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Alchemy): For every two dice made in the skill, the user may stress a single rank of Resistance granted by this incant, without ending the incant’s effect.;500;500;Arcana: Alchemy;100+ year old wine ;
Elixir of Mental Focus;Mixture;This multicolored potion reinforces the mind of the drinker. The user is granted (1/2/2/3/3/4) ranks of Exceptional Attribute. The target attribute must be chosen between INT, PER, CSE, PWR and WIL. Only one Elixir of Mental Focus can be active per creature. This effect lasts for 30 minutes per the incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Alchemy): For every two dice made in the skill, the user may stress a single rank of Exceptional granted by this incant, without ending the incant’s effect.;1,000;1,000;Arcana: Alchemy;none;
Elixir of Wakefulness;Mixture;The brew of the wakeleaf plant is widely known to have recuperating qualities. The drinker’s next rest period is reduced by the number of hours equal to the incant rank while granting full benefits.;Secondary Effect (Alchemy): For each die made in the skill, the user increases their DP and standard unit type gain from rest by 2.;500;500;Arcana: Alchemy;wakeleaf;
Ironskin Distillate;Mixture;The drinker’s skin becomes as tough as iron, but its conductivity increases as well. The user gains Weapon DR (1/2/3/4/5/6), but also gains (0/1/1/2/2/3) ranks of Susceptible to Lightning. This effect lasts for 30 minutes per the incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Alchemy): For every two dice made in the skill, the mixture is further enhanced, reducing granted ranks of Susceptible to Lightning by 1.;500;500;Arcana: Alchemy;none;
Memory Elixir;Mixture;This elixir reverses the effects of memory loss through old age, dementia, amnesia, and magic effects. The blood of the recipient is mixed into the incant, allowing it to target their spirit. Upon drinking this mixture, the recipient goes into a trance as they remember what was forgotten. They remain in this state for five minutes and recover the memories of the last five years per rank of the incant. This incant can only work once on a given individual. This incant does not negate the effect of the Philter of Regression.;Secondary Effect (Alchemy): For each die made against this skill, the mixture can work on the individual again. For example, if they drank this mixture once before, then a one die skill check is required.;500;500;Arcana: Alchemy;target’s blood;
Blinding Powder;Powder;This powder sticks to the enemy’s eyes, impeding the enemy's ability to properly aim weapons or target spells. All rolls to touch or hit suffer a penalty equal to the rank of the incant. Line-of-Sight spells can only be targeted by succeeding a (3/3/4/4/5/5) dice check against Arcana. This effect lasts for 4 rounds or until the target spends their standard action to remove it.;Secondary Effect (Pyrotechnics): For each die made against this skill, increase the powder throwing range by 10’ or increase the duration by 1 round.;500;500;Science: Pyrotechnics;none;
Charming Dust;Powder;This purple dust is made from dried and powdered Zombie Plant berries. It clouds the target’s mind, making them perceive the nomad (and their party) as a friend and ally. The target must succeed a (3/4/4/5/5/6) dice check against WIL or be charmed. This effect lasts for 4 rounds.;Secondary Effect (Hypnosis): For each die made against this skill, increase the powder throwing range by 10’ or increase the duration by 1 round.;1,000;1.000;Psychology: Hypnosis;zombie plant berries;
Corrosive Specks;Powder;This fuming green salt eats through the target’s armor, reducing their Combat and Ranged defense values by 1 per incant rank. This effect lasts for 4 rounds or until the target spends their standard action to remove it.;Secondary Effect (Pyrotechnics): For each die made against this skill, increase the powder throwing range by 10’ or increase the duration by 1 round.;500;500;Science: Pyrotechnics;noxious steel rust;
Draining Granules;Powder;Dull gray silent steel dust prevents the creature from using magical abilities, casting spells and activating magical items unless they succeed a (3/4/4/5/5/6)d6 check against PWR. This effect lasts for 4 rounds or until the target spends their standard action to remove it.;Secondary Effect (Pyrotechnics): For each die made against this skill, increase the powder throwing range by 10’ or increase the duration by 1 round.;500;500;Science: Pyrotechnics;silent steel bits;
Irritating Powder;Powder;This red powder irritates the skin, causing excruciating pain. The target takes (rank)d6 points of pain damage every round. This effect lasts for 4 rounds or until the target spends their standard action to remove it.;Secondary Effect (Pyrotechnics): For each die made against this skill, increase the powder throwing range by 10’ or increase the duration by 1 round.;500;500;Science: Pyrotechnics;none;
Nightmare Soot;Powder;This black dust seems to absorb the light touching it. The target of this powder is assaulted by otherworldly voices and specters of the dead. The target must succeed a (3/4/4/5/5/6) dice check against WIL or be frightened. This effect lasts for 4 rounds.;Secondary Effect (Hypnosis): For each die made against this skill, increase the powder throwing range by 10’ or increase the duration by 1 round.;500;Psychology: Hypnosis;none;
Portal Disruption Powder;Powder;This silvery dust disrupts teleportation. The target of this powder is dimensionally anchored. If the target attempts any teleportation, they take (rank)d6 points of energy damage This effect lasts for 4 rounds or until the target spends their standard action to remove it.;Secondary Effect (Pyrotechnics): For each die made against this skill, increase the powder throwing range by 10’ or increase the duration by 1 round.;500;500;Science: Pyrotechnics;warped steel dust;
