Beast Eye;Tattoo;The nomad draws a tattoo of the Beast Eye around their own eyes. When activated, this incant grants the nomad ranks of Heat Vision or Night Vision equal to the rank of the incant. The effect lasts  for 30 minutes per incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For every two dice made in the skill, the nomad shares this effect with one more creature touched during the activation.;250;500;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Beast Tongue;Tattoo;The nomad draws a tattoo of the beast maw around their mouth and bonds with an animal spirit. When activated, the nomad gains an ability to communicate simple ideas with unintelligent animals for 30 minutes per incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For every two dice made in the skill, the nomad shares this effect with one more creature touched during the activation.;250;500;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Bull’s Horns;Tattoo;The nomad tattoos bull’s horns on their head and bonds the animal spirit. When activated as a standard action, the nomad moves forward up to (10 x rank) feet. Any creature in their path takes (rank+2)d6 points of blunt damage and is knocked prone. Affected creatures may attempt a (3/4/4/5/5/6) check against STR to avoid being knocked prone and take half damage.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): The nomad chooses one creature affected. In addition to being knocked prone on the failed check, the creature is launched 5’ per dice made against this skill in the direction of nomad’s movement.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;powdered bull’s horn;
Cheetah Burst;Tattoo;The nomad tattoos a running cheetah on their ankles and bonds with the animal spirit. When activated prior to the initiative roll, the tattoo grants the nomad Quickness for the round. The effect lasts for a number of rounds equal to the rank of the incant.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For every two dice made in the skill, the nomad shares this effect with one more creature touched during the activation.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;cheetah fur;
Dark Transcript;Tattoo;This incant creates a tattoo of an eye on the incantor's body, and lures an animal spirit to the tattoo. If the tattoo is exposed while the nomad sleeps, when they wake images seen by the spirit during their sleep appear in their mind. The spirit can perceive up to 10 feet per rank of the incant. Creating a new Dark Transcript releases any previous animal spirits bound to this incant.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For every two dice made against this skill, the nomad can take a die off the PER check to wake up from their sleep.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Dragon Breath;Tattoo;The nomad tattoos a dragon on their chest and lures a draconic spirit to the tattoo. When activated as a standard action, the nomad deals (rank+2)d6 damage in the 5’ x (10 x rank)’ line. Type of damage is chosen every day between earth, fire/heat, lightning and cold. Affected creatures may attempt a (3/3/4/4/5/5)d6 vs AGI check for half damage.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For every two dice made in the skill, the tattoo is further enhanced, channeling more powerful draconic spirits. The base damage die size is increased by 2.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;drake claw;
Eagle Wings;Tattoo;The tattoo of the eagle wings on the nomad’s back enables them to fly through the air. Their rate of physical flying is equal to their land movement rate. The effect lasts for 10 minutes per the rank of incant.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For every two dice made in the skill, the nomad shares this effect with one more creature touched during the activation.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;eagle feather;
Elemental Sigil;Tattoo;While usually an expertise of mages, as nomadic traditions evolve, they too learn to utilize spirits of elements. The nomad draws a runic tattoo and lures elemental spirit to it. For the next minute (including the activation round), as a standard action you may hurl a ball of energy at the creature within 60’ as a ranged attack, dealing (1/2/2/3/3/4)d6 of damage (core) on hit. For the attack roll, use the highest between your RMOD and (2 x Rank).;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For every two dice, the tattoo is further enhanced, channeling more powerful elemental spirits. The base damage die size or roll to-hit is increased by 2.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Porcupine Quills;Tattoo;The nomad tattoos a symbol of porcupine on the back of their neck and lures an animal spirit to it. When activated as a reaction to a melee attack against the nomad, the spikes form a damaging aura around the nomad. The attacker takes (rank)d4 of piercing damage and the attack proceeds as normal.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For every two dice made in the skill, the incant can be triggered one more time during the enemy’s round.;500;750;Arcana: Channeling;porcupine quill;
Serpent Fang;Tattoo;The nomad tattoos a snake coiling around their arm and lures a spirit of the snake to it. When activated as a standard action, the snake comes alive, biting at the enemy within melee range. If they fail a (3/4/4/5/5/6)d6 check against HEA, they gain Inferior HEA, AGI or STR (nomad’s choice). The effect lasts for 1 hour per the rank of the incant.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): In addition to biting, the snake briefly squeezes its victim. On a failed check, the target takes 2 points of blunt damage per dice made against this skill.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;cobra poison;
Spider Webs;Tattoo;The nomad tattoos a symbol of a spider on their back. When activated as a standard action, spider webs shoot from behind the nomad, enveloping a creature within melee range. If the creature fails a (3/3/4/4/5/5)d6 resistance check against AGI, they are grappled. The effect lasts for 4 rounds or until the creature succeeds a STR attribute check of the same difficulty.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For each die made against this skill, increase target range by 5’.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;spider webbing;
Tiger Claw;Tattoo;The nomad tattoos tiger patterns on their wrists and lures a feline spirit to it. When activated as a standard action, the nomad leaps to the creature within (rank x 10)’ away from them. If the creature fails a (3/4/4/5/5/6)d6 resistance check against AGI, they take (rank+2)d6 points of edged damage, half on success.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For every two dice made in the skill, the tattoo is further enhanced, channeling more powerful animal spirits. The base damage die size is increased by 2.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;tiger fur;
Tortoise Shell;Tattoo;The nomad tattoos a tortoise shell on their shoulders. When activated as a reaction, this incant absorbs (5 x rank) points of physical damage from a single source.;500;1,000;none;tortoise eggshell;
Animal Bind;Mixture;The nomad requires the assistance of an animal for this incant. They prepare the needed powder and place it in a small bag. While touching the bag to the animal, the nomad concentrates on the most distinctive ability of the animal, then incants. The person that eats the powder gains that ability of the animal for one hour. This incant functions similar to the Mutate spell, granting the nomad abilities that could be obtained from it, limited to what the animal has. Each rank allows the nomad a pool of 2,500 XP to spend to gain this ability. Multiple instances can affect the same user, but must grant different abilities.;Secondary Effect (Herbology): If the nomad makes a check against this skill, increase the number of hours this incant lasts by the number of dice made.;1,000;500;Science: Herbology;an animal;
Body Charm;Focal Object;Body Charms strengthen the physical attributes of the nomad. When activated as an action, the user is granted (1/2/2/3/3/4) ranks of Exceptional Attribute. The target attribute must be chosen between STR, AGI, HEA and COM. Only one Body Charm can be active per creature. This effect lasts for 30 minutes per the incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For every two dice made in the skill, the user may stress a single rank of Exceptional granted by this incant, consuming the rank of Exceptional, but not ending the effect.;1,000;1,000;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Breath Gel;Mixture;When this gel is applied to the nose and mouth, it allows the incantor to breath under water for one hour per incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Herbology): If the nomad makes a check against this skill, increase the number of hours this incant lasts by the number of dice made. With a three die check against this skill, the incant allows the user to breath in the naturally hazardous environments. ;500;250;Science: Herbology;none;
Crystal Gate;Focal Object;The nomad, with the assistance of a glassblower if they lack the skill, creates two glass spheres from the same batch of molten glass. Performing a ritual over them while they cool, links the two spheres to work as a two-way audio-visual gate that can be used to communicate over any distance, including across dimensions, though some magical interference may prevent or distort the call. When someone wishes to use a sphere, they touch it and call out. The other sphere emits a periodic beeping noise, and when it is touched by someone, the two people may see and speak to each other for 5 minutes. The spheres may be used a number of times per day equal to the incant rank. If a sphere is broken, the spiritual magic is released from both.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For each die rolled against this skill, increase the duration of the call by 5 minutes.;250;500;Arcana: Channeling;Quartz glass;
Energy Salve;Mixture;When this salve is applied to the skin, it creates a protective layer that will absorb five points of damage per incant rank. Energy Salve absorbs Light, Blight and Energy damage types. A single Salve may be applied at a time, they cannot be layered. This incant causes the skin to have an ethereal glow to it. This effect lasts for 30 minutes per the incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Herbology): For each die made against this skill (up to the incant rank), increase the points of damage that will be absorbed by five.;750;500;Science: Herbology;none;
Explorer’s Salve;Mixture;When this salve is applied to the skin, it creates a protective layer that will absorb five points of damage per incant rank. Explorer’s Salve absorbs damage types commonly encountered in the wild such as Water, Acid, Cold, Earth, Fire/Heat and Lightning. A single Salve may be applied at a time, they cannot be layered. This incant causes the skin to have an colorful glow to it depending on what damage type it blocked last. This effect lasts for 30 minutes per the incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Herbology): For each die made against this skill (up to the incant rank), increase the points of damage that will be absorbed by five.;750;500;Science: Herbology;none;
Iron Salve;Mixture;When this salve is applied to the skin, it creates a protective layer that will absorb five points of damage per incant rank. Iron Salve absorbs Edged, Blunt and Piercing damage types. A single Salve may be applied at a time, they cannot be layered. This effect lasts for 30 minutes per the incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Herbology): For each die made against this skill (up to the incant rank), increase the points of damage that will be absorbed by five.;750;500;Science Herbology;none;
Life Light;Focal Object;A small vial is filled with a mixture of silver dust and the blood of the targeted individual. The nomad holds the vial and touches the target during the creation of this talisman. The vial begins to glow softly with a silver glow relative to the target’s remaining DP, as long as the target is still alive and within (50 x incant rank) mets of the vial.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): The mixture is further enhanced, creating an energy barrier when the vial is broken. For every two dice, the creature reduces damage from all sources by 1 during the round the vial breaks.;250;500;Arcana: Channeling;target’s blood;
Memory Stone;Focal Object;Holding a small stone in their hand, the nomad focuses on one person, object, location or event. The memory is stored inside the stone and reveals itself to the creature touching the stone. The memory stone can store up to (5 x rank) minutes of information.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For each die made against this skill, up to the incant rank, increase the memory duration by 5 minutes.;250;250;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Moon Boots;Focal Object;Starting with a well-fitting pair of boots, the nomad displays these under the light of one of the moons and creates this incant. While worn the boots grant +1 to the Athletics skill per rank of the incant. For every two ranks, remove one armor attribute penalty. The effect lasts for 1 hour per rank.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For each die made against this skill, up to the incant rank, the user is also granted +1 to the Acrobatics skill.;250;500;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Moon Crystal;Focal Object;Using a perfect quartz crystal of at least two inches in size, the nomad prepares this incant by the light of one of the moons. When complete, they can then use the crystal to mesmerize / hypnotize subjects. If they fail a resistance check equal to (3/3/4/4/5/5)d6 vs WIL, the incantor can trick them into telling information they want to know. They can also implant a suggestion which can be an action triggered by a single keyword, action, item or phrase.;Secondary Effect (Hypnosis): The nomad can attempt to trick the mind past magical effects currently holding the target's mind in captivation, or locking memories which is otherwise preventing them from telling the incantor. For each die made against this skill the nomad gets an effective 3d6 revoke, which, if successful, does not remove the effect blocking the information, but will temporarily remove it for the purpose of finding out the desired information.;1,000;500;Psychology: Hypnosis;perfect quartz;
Moon Shroud;Focal Object;The nomad uses a well-crafted silver crescent, at least two inches in size, hung on a silver necklace. Taking this out into the light of the moon, they fall into a trance concentrating on the moon above and weaving power from the Kurago into the talisman. Afterwards when someone wears this necklace at night under the light of a moon, the talisman makes the user unseen to others who fail a resistance check equal to (3/3/4/4/5/5)d6 against PER. Magical means will still reveal the person and other methods of hiding, such as stealth, are separate from this check. The effect lasts for 10 minutes per rank of the incant.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): The nomad can make this incant effective even without moon light by making a four dice check against this skill.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;silver crescent;
Spirit Weapon;Invocation;The nomad lures a spirit into the weapon, empowering it. The weapon gains a charm equal to the rank of the incant. As a reaction to a successful attack, the user may end the effect, dealing (rank)d6 additional  energy damage (skill). Unless expended, the effect lasts for one hour.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): With a four die check against this skill, the weapon may strike immaterial and ethereal creatures as if they were physical.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;weapon;
