Spirit Guard;Tattoo;The nomad calls a spirit to defend them in the case of misfortune. While being tattooed, the nomad seeks out an animal, elemental or death spirit to aid them. The tattoo will resemble that spirit. Once per day, the nomad can call out the spirit to aid them. The maximum rating of this creature that can be called upon equals the rank of the incant x 10. The spirit will aid the nomad for an hour or until death, then return to the tattoo. Only one Spirit Guard can be summoned at the time.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For every two dice made against this skill, the nomad may use one Spirit Guard Invocation incant from this list at the moment of summoning.;1,500;1,000;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Bond;Invocation;The nomad strengthens the connection between them and the Spirit Guard. A number of times equal to the incant rank, they can use their reaction to transfer half of the damage taken from a single source to or from the Spirit Guard.;500;-;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Burst;Invocation;The nomad empowers their Spirit Guard with better mobility. The Spirit Guard’s movement rate is increased by 10’ per rank. The effect lasts as long as the Spirit Guard is active.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Claw;Invocation;As a fifth, the nomad empowers their Spirit Guard with better offense. The Spirit Guard deals extra (rank) points of damage (bonus) on every attack. The effect lasts for 1 minute.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Hide;Invocation;As a fifth, the nomad empowers their Spirit Guard with better defense. The Spirit Guard gains (rank) magical DVs. The effect lasts for 1 minute.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Might;Invocation;The nomad empowers their Spirit Guard, allowing them to withstand more damage. The Spirit Guard gains (5 x rank) to their current and maximum DP pools. The effect lasts for 1 minute.;1,000;500;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Precision;Invocation;As a fifth, the nomad empowers their Spirit Guard with greater precision. The Spirit Guard increases their rolls to hit by (rank). The effect lasts for 1 minute.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Summon;Invocation;The nomad strengthens the link between the Spirit Guard and them. By pulling on that connection as a fifth, nomad can summon the Spirit Guard to them. This can be used a number of times equal to the rank of the incant.;500;-;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Agony;Cursed Object;The nomad inserts needles at the pain points of the doll, the target’s suffering is amplified. If the target fails a (3/4/4/5/5/6)d6 vs HEA check, the first time the target takes damage during the combat round, they take additional (3 x rank) points of pain damage for the duration.;500;500;Crafting: Tailoring;none;
Arthritis;Cursed Object;The nomad fixes the doll's limbs at a certain angle, similarly the target has trouble bending their limbs. If the target fails a (3/4/4/5/5/6)d6 vs AGI check their movement rate is reduced by 10’ per rank for the duration. The movement rate cannot be reduced below half.;500;500;Crafting: Tailoring;none;
Brain Fever;Cursed Object;Needles are inserted into the doll’s head, causing a sharp headache and disrupting mental focus. If the target fails a (3/3/4/4/5/6)d6 vs WIL check, they gain (1/1/2/2/3/3) Inferior Attribute for the duration. The target attribute must be chosen between INT, PER, CSE, PWR and WIL. One instance can be active on the same target.;500;500;Crafting: Tailoring;none;
Fatigue;Cursed Object;Needles inserted into the doll’s abdomen cause sharp physical pain. If the target fails a (3/3/4/4/5/6)d6 vs PWR check, they gain (1/1/2/2/3/3) Inferior Attribute for the duration. The target attribute must be chosen between STR, AGI, HEA or COM. One instance can be active on the same target.;500;500;Crafting: Tailoring;none;
Ill Omen;Cursed Object;The nomad throws a pinch of the corpse dust at the doll, striking the target with bad luck. If the target fails a (3/3/4/4/5/5)d6 vs CSE check, their next (1/2/3/4/5/6) rolls are modified by (1/1/2/2/2/3) in the least favorable direction.;500;500;Crafting: Tailoring;none;
Itching;Cursed Object;The nomad throws a pinch of sand at the doll’s eyes, irritating the target eyes. If the target fails a (3/3/4/4/5/6)d6 vs HEA check, they suffer Blind Fighting penalty on all their melee and ranged attacks for the duration.;500;500;Crafting: Tailoring;none;
Lamprey;Cursed Object;Tying a dried up parasite to the doll disrupts the target’s healing. If the target fails a (3/3/4/4/5/6)d6 vs HEA check, all effects that restore their DP are reduced by 2 points per rank for the duration.;500;500;Crafting: Tailoring;none;
Pain Bond;Cursed Object;As a reaction to taking damage, the nomad mirrors some of their pain to the doll. The attacker and (0/1/1/2/2/3) additional creatures within 60’ take half of the damage dealt as pain damage. The nomad still takes full damage and the effect ends.;500;500;Crafting: Tailoring;none;
Phantasm;Cursed Object;The nomad puts a blindfold around the doll’s eyes. If the target fails a (3/3/4/4/5/6)d6 vs PER check, their LOS is reduced to (70 - 10 x rank) feet for the duration. Anything outside this radius appears as a nonsensical distorted illusion.;500;500;Crafting: Tailoring;none;
AkvoSerael;Mixture;This potion, used in the Seraie, opens a mind to communication with the Kurago. This is used for nomadic induction so a potential nomad can find and bond with their guardian spirit. The imbiber must fail a resistance check of the ritual’s rank in dice against HEA. Failing this resistance check puts the target into the proper trance. If the potion fails, repeated attempts are allowable.;Secondary Effect (Herbology): Each two dice made against this skill allows the drinker to reroll their resistance check if they succeed. ;100;250;Science: Herbology;none;
Container of Spirit Deprivation;Focal Object;The incantor creates a container out of strong solid materials with no holes or gaps bigger than one inch. It also may have up to one opening, which can be no bigger than a 3' x 7' and must be able to seal shut. The rank of the incant x 3’ is the maximum of any dimension of this container. Once complete, it serves as an area isolated from the Kurago and any of its spirits. Nomads cannot make incants while sealed in this container, and a spirit possessing a body cannot flee or escape its host. Anyone possessed by a spirit or a second lifer is free of their influence while inside, but becomes instantly repossessed upon leaving.;Secondary Effect (Hypnosis): For each die made against this skill, the maximum dimension of the container can be increased by three feet, and an additional two dice allows the nomad to create another sealable opening. ;500;500;Psychology: Hypnosis;none;
Eviction Ritual;Invocation;This ritual is used to remove a spirit, second lifer, demon or any other magical entity that is possessing a victim. The nomad begins by chanting for at least a round for every rank of the ritual. At the end of the chant, the possessing spirit must attempt a (3/4/4/5/5/6)d6 vs WIL resistance check. Failing this roll forces the possessor from the body and back into the Kurago (or any other applicable destination), banishing it for at least as many years as the rank of the ritual. The formerly possessed person retains their memory of all the events that occurred since their possession.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For each die made against this skill, the incantor can reduce the number of rounds of chanting required by one, to a minimum of one round.;800;500;Arcana: Channeling;none;
Spirit Scout;Invocation;The nomad performs a ritual to summon a small animal spirit. The spirit manifests itself in a translucent form resembling the animal. The nomad then falls into trance and can direct the spirit around as well as perceive the world from the spirit’s perspective. The spirit may move at the rate of (10 x rank) on land or through air. Its sensory abilities and attributes are the same as the nomads. The spirit cannot interact with the physical world and vanishes if it takes any damage. The trance lasts for 10 minutes per the rank of the incant, though the nomad can interrupt it earlier.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): With a four dice check against this skill, the spirit is autonomous. It will scout the area as directed, however the nomad only receives information once the spirit comes back to them. If the spirit is destroyed, the nomad is aware of it and receives a vision of the last 16 seconds prior to the spirit’s destruction.;500;250;Arcana: Channeling;small animal’s fur, bird feather;
Spirit Snare;Focal Object;A large quartz crystal is endowed with spiritual magic. Any spirit, ghost or lone soul other than the incantor’s guardian spirit that touches the crystal must succeed at a (3/4/4/5/5/6)d6 vs WIL resistance check or be ensnared within the crystal. The spirit can only be released by smashing the crystal. Only one spirit per round may be pulled into the crystal. The crystal is a valid target for the Eviction Ritual.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): Each die made against this skill increases the number of spirits that can be pulled into the crystal per round by one.;800;500;Arcana: Channeling;quartz crystal;
Spirit Sound;Focal Object;Taking a small earring, the incantor uses this incant to endow it with the ability to listen to any nearby spirits. While worn, the wearer can hear nearby spirits. The difficulty to hear the spirits while wearing this incant if there is no spiritual interference is six dice against PER. Each rank in this incant allows the nomad to take one die off this attribute check.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): Each die made against this skill grants the nomad one rank of a special language skill which applies to all languages, but only for the purpose of understanding the spirits.;500;500;Arcana: Channeling;small earring;
Spirit Ward;Focal Object;The incantor must have a symbol that is symbolic to its intended possessor, and can be brandished in one hand. Weaving the incant on the item, it becomes an anathema to spirits from the Kurago, elemental spirits, demons or undeads. Any such creature attempting to approach a person within 10' that is brandishing this object must succeed a (3/4/4/5/5/6)d6 vs WIL resistance check or be forced to flee for four rounds. If the spirit makes the check, they may ignore the incant the rest of the day.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): Each die made versus this skill increases the wards radius by 10'.;1,000;1,000;Arcana: Channeling;symbol;
Trace Spirit Link;Invocation;The nomad concentrates on a seal, tattoo, item, or person that is currently enchanted with spiritual energy and prepares this invocation. When complete, the nomad rolls 1d6 per rank of the incant and the GM or original nomad rolls 1d6 per rank of the target incant. If this incant rolls higher, the nomad will know the distance and direction to anything that is linked to the target incant. This effect will last for two hours times the rank of the incant. ;Secondary Effect (Channeling): With a three die check against this skill, the nomad will also be able to see any other incants linked to the same source.;500;250;Arcana: Channeling;none;
