Opus Vitalis;Score;Up to PER/3 creatures within earshot recover 2 DP per incant rank while active. This healing occurs at the beginning of the Troubadour’s turn.;1500;Acting (Performance, Instrumental Music); Arcana (Channeling); Psychology (Hypnosis);none;
Canti Spiritus;Score;Choose a mental stat (INT, CSE, WIL, PWR, or PER). For the duration of the incant uptime, up to PER/3 creatures within earshot gain a +1 to the chosen stat per incant rank.;1500;Acting (Performance, Instrumental Music); Arcana (Channeling); Psychology (Hypnosis);none;
Canti Corporeus;Score;Choose a physical stat (STR, AGI, HEA, or COM). For the duration of the incant uptime, up to PER/3 creatures within earshot gain a +1 to the chosen stat per incant rank.;1500;Acting (Performance, Instrumental Music); Arcana (Channeling); Psychology (Hypnosis);none;
Vento Sonata;Score;Up to PER/3 creatures within earshot gain +10’ movement speed per incant rank while active.;1500;Acting (Performance, Instrumental Music); Arcana (Channeling); Psychology (Hypnosis);none;
Captivating Arabesque;Score;Up to PER/3 creatures of the caster’s choice must succeed a WIL check equal to the incant rank or use their action to dance along with the performance for the incant duration. ;1500;Acting (Performance, Instrumental Music); Arcana (Channeling); Psychology (Hypnosis);none;
Battle Hymn;Score;This Score has two options. Upon first activation, choose one. The option chosen cannot be changed after the Score begins.;1500;Acting (Performance, Instrumental Music); Arcana (Channeling); Psychology (Hypnosis);none;
Dissonant Demoralization;Score;Choose any Attribute score. During incant duration, up to PER/3 creatures of the caster’s choice take a -1 penalty per rank of the incant to the chosen Attribute. ;1500;Acting (Performance, Instrumental Music); Arcana (Channeling); Psychology (Hypnosis);none;
Dance of the Lights;Performance;This performance requires standard action and calls fire spirits to aid the caster for 10 minutes. The brightness of the lights summoned increases with incant rank, with rank 1 being equivalent to a torch and rank 6 being equivalent to full daylight. These lights cannot overcome magical darkness, however.;Secondary Effect (Performance): All chosen creatures within eyeshot must make a PER check equal to the dice made against skill (up to incant rank) or be blinded for 1 round.;100;250;Acting (Performance);none;
Oblivion Chorale;Performance;This performance requires 1 minute, and requires the caster to sing about a certain person, place, event, or object. All chosen creatures within earshot must make a (3/4/4/5/5/6)d6 vs WIL resistance check or forget about the performance’s subject for 12 hours x incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Hypnosis): The nomad may make a skill check equal to the incant rank. If successful, they may instead project the subject of the performance, making the targets believe they remember the subject (instead of forgetting it.);500;500;Psychology (Hypnosis);none;
Lullaby of Certain Peace;Performance;This performance requires 1 minute to take effect. After the minute has passed, all chosen creatures within earshot must make a (3/4/4/5/5/6)d6 vs WIL resistance check or fall into a deep, peaceful sleep for 1 hour. Those affected can be woken by taking 1 action to shake them awake. The performance itself is unobtrusive; it is only noticeable if a target makes the resist check by 4 or more.;Secondary Effect (Instrumental Music): The nomad may make a skill check equal to the incant rank. If successful, the performance only requires 1 action, but instead of immediately putting targets to sleep, it instead slows their movement speed by 10’ and makes it such that taking Attack Actions or casting spells requires a full turn.;500;500;Acting (Instrumental Music);none;
Spirit Dirge;Performance;This performance requires 2 rounds. It stabilizes one creature within 20’ x incant rank LOS that is at or below 0 DP. They remain unconscious, but are no longer in a dying state.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): A one-die check reduces the performance activation time to 1 round, and a two-die check reduces it to 1 fifth. Additional dice heal the target 2 DP per die made.;250;250;Arcana (Channeling);none;
Farsong;Performance;This performance requires 1 minute, and calls air spirits to deliver a message to a faraway place. The nomad must specify a single target to the best of their ability, and may speak a message consisting of up to 10 x incant rank words. Within 1 minute of casting, the target may reply with the same word limit, and the message is delivered back. This incant will not work between planes, but has no distance limit on the same plane.;Secondary Effect (Performance): The nomad may make a skill check equal to the incant rank. If successful, they may include images, smells, or textures in the message. Each non-verbal element included counts as 5 words.;500;250;Acting (Performance);none;
Grand Inspiration;Performance;This complex performance takes place over 10 minutes. After the elapsed time, up to 3 creatures, which may include the caster, gain temporary DP equal to 5 x the incant rank and resistance to 1 type of damage (chosen when the performance begins) for the next hour.;Secondary Effect (Instrumental Music): For each 2 dice made (up to the incant rank), an additional damage type resistance may be selected. ;1000;1000;Acting (Instrumental Music);none;
Zephyr Polka;Performance;This performance may last up to 1 hour per incant rank, with the nomad’s action devoted to performing throughout. While the performance lasts, air spirits are drawn to assist and a single nonliving vehicle targeted (ship, train, car, etc.) will have its movement speed increased by 4 miles-per-hour (or 25-feet per-round) per incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): The nomad may make a skill check equal to the incant rank. If successful, the nomad can instead target a creature, with the air spirits lifting them up and granting them a fly speed equal to 20’ x incant rank while the performance lasts.;250;500;Arcana (Channeling);none;
Ill-Rested Tune;Performance;This performance requires 10 minutes. Target a sleeping creature by calling its name. There is no distance limit, but the target must be on the same plane as the caster. The target must make a (3/4/4/5/5/6)d6 vs WIL resistance check. If failed, the target experiences horrible nightmares and does not gain any benefit of its rest, and additionally gains 1 rank of INF WIL until they have a night of restful sleep.;Secondary Effect (Hypnosis): The nomad may make a skill check equal to the incant rank. If successful, deal mental damage equal to the dice made to the target when they make.;500;500;Psychology (Hypnosis);none;
Spirit Hand;Performance;This performance may last up to 10 minutes, with the nomad’s fifth devoted to performing throughout. While the performance lasts, a spectral hand able to carry 5 x incant rank pounds appears and follows any command given by the caster. The hand is not able to deal damage or move creatures against their will.;Secondary Effect (Performance): For each 2 dice made against this skill (up to the incant rank), this incant may manifest an additional hand.;250;250;Acting (Performance);none;
Anima Ballad;Performance;This performance requires 1 minute, and its effects last up to 8 hours (may be dispelled anytime with no action required). When activated, 5 x incant rank lbs of nonliving, nonmagical material animate into a small construct with a form of the caster’s choosing. The construct is able to follow simple commands, but cannot deal damage. All of its attributes equal 10 by default, and it has DP equal to the lbs of material used in its construction.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): The nomad may make a skill check equal to the incant rank. If successful, the construct’s INT increases to 12 and it becomes able to speak 1 language of the caster’s choice (that they know) at rank 6. ;500;500;Arcana (Channeling);none;
Beastsong;Performance;This performance requires 1 action, and its effects last up to 1 hour. Choose 1 creature within earshot (may target yourself). The target gains 3 + incant rank ranks of Entish for the duration, allowing them to speak with intelligent beasts and plants.;Secondary Effect (Animal Calling): The nomad may make a skill check equal to the incant rank. If successful, any Acting skill check made for the purpose of interacting with intelligent beasts and plants is made with a bonus equal to the incant rank.;100;250;Animal Handling (Animal Calling);none;
Key of the Arts;Performance;This performance requires 1 action. Upon activation, any attempt to unlock a mundanely locked object gains a +2 bonus per incant rank. This incant’s performance involves loud percussive sounds, clearly audible from 100 feet away.;Secondary Effect (Instrumental Music): For each die made (up to the incant rank), the caster may soften the sounds of the performance, reducing the range from which it is audible by 20’.;500;500;Acting (Instrumental Music);none;
Resonance;Performance;This performance requires 1 action. Upon activation, a sharp ringing emanates from a non-magical object within 60’ LOS, dealing (incant rank)d8 pain damage to all creatures within 10’ with a (3/4/4/5/5/6)d6 vs HEA resistance check to halve.;Secondary Effect (Performance): The nomad may make a skill check equal to the incant rank. If successful, up to incant rank x 2 lbs of inorganic non-magical materials within the 10’ radius of effect (ex. stone, glass, crystal) shatter.;500;500;Acting (Performance);none;
Etude for Many;Performance;This performance requires 1 minute to activate. A single ally may increase ranks of 1 non-combat skill of their choice by +1 per rank of the performance. The effect lasts for 10 minutes per incant rank.;Secondary Effect (Performance): for every two dice, affect an additional ally.;500;500;Acting (Performance);none;
Chord of Revival;Invocation (Chord);When an ally within 100’ LOS falls unconscious, the caster may restore the incant rank’s worth of DP to them.;Secondary Effect (Instrumental Music): For each two dice made, the caster may additionally restore 1d4 DP to the incant’s target.;500;500;Acting (Instrumental Music);none;
Chord of Devastation;Invocation (Chord);When an ally scores a critical hit, the caster may increase the critical roll by 1 per rank of the incant.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): The nomad may make a skill check equal to the incant rank. If successful, they may take 10 minutes to place this incant’s effect into a focal object, which can be activated as a reaction by anyone holding it. After activation in this way, the focal object loses its charge.;500;500;Arcana (Channeling);none;
Chord of the Elements;Invocation (Chord);When an ally casts an elemental spell of rank 12 or below that requires a resist check, the caster may increase the difficulty of this resist check by a flat amount equal to the incant rank. For example, if the resistance check is 4d6 and rank 4 Chord of Elements is used, the resistance check is 4d6+4.;Secondary Effect (Performance): If the spell being buffed by this incant deals damage, the nomad may make a skill check equal to the incant rank. If successful, the spell deals an additional (incant rank)d4 damage of its type.;1,000;1,000;Acting (Performance);none;
Chord of the Leylines;Invocation (Chord);When an enemy casts a spell or magical effect that requires a resist check, the caster may target up to 3 creatures within 30’ and decrease the difficulty of this resist check by a flat amount equal to the incant rank. For example, if the resistance check is 4d6 and rank 4 Chord of Leylines is used, the resistance check is 4d6-4.;Secondary Effect (Channeling): For each die made against this skill (up to the incant rank), the Chord may target an additional creature and the radius of possible targets increases by 5’.;1,000;1,000;Arcana (Channeling);none;
