Air Magics;1;Minibolt;1 round;Minibolt calls forth a small electrical charge from the air and sends it blasting towards the target and does 1d6 of lightning damage. A Minibolt always hits the target, but magical resistance can negate or reduce the damage.This spell can also be finessed twice to have the bolt arc to a second target within 10’ after striking the first. ;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;static shock
Air Magics;2;Gust;1 round;Gust produces a blast of air in the area of effect, up to 30 + 10/F miles per hour, sufficient to extinguish unprotected flames, fan a large fire, propel a sailed vessel, etc. The caster can use an action on subsequent turns during the spell’s duration to control the speed and direction of the gust.;none;60 + 15/F’;2 + 1/F hours;10’ x (20 + 10/F’) line;strong gust of wind
Air Magics;3;Arise;1 round;Arise creates a compressed pocket of air beneath the caster, allowing them to float into the air. The caster, while concentrating with their action, can float up or down at a rate of 4 + 1/F’ per round. The caster is at the mercy of winds and other forces that could cause lateral movement. They cannot carry more than they could normally lift above their head.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;rise from ground
Air Magics;3;Modify Resistivity;1 round;If the target fails the resistance check, they gain one rank of Susceptible to Lightning for the duration of the spell.;4d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;electrical susceptibility
Air Magics;4;Fresh Air;1 round;With Fresh Air the caster can cleanse a volume of fetid, putrid, or poisonous air to  make it breathable. Active spell effects are not negated by this effect. The purified area can move with the caster if they so choose.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;freshen air
Air Magics;4;Clear!;1 round;When used on a target, this spell allows the caster to take one die off a skill check against the Medicine: Revive skill. For every 2 finesses, it allows the caster to simultaneously roll a check to revive one other person, within 5 feet. If the caster has no skill, this will act as a successful one die check against the Medicine: Revive skill.;none;touch*;instantaneous;1 + 1/2F targets;shock to life
Air Magics;5;Shock Collar;1 round;While casting this spell, the mage specifies an action of three words or less, such as “casting spells” or “hurting innocent people” and precedes it with the word “No.” Though there is no check to be able to disobey the command, they take 2d6 points of lightning damage every time they go against it. This activates (and therefore deals damage) at most, once per round.Specified actions can only include things that people can do voluntarily; actions like “no breathing” will not function with this spell unless breathing is optional for a target. ;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;punish action
Air Magics;6;Lightning Bolt;1 round;The caster uses this spell to create opposed electrical charges between the caster’s fingertip and their intended target. This electrical potential causes a bolt of electrical energy to travel from their finger to the target along the path of least resistance. Intervening objects and people along this path are affected by the bolt, as is the target, taking 6d6 lightning damage.;4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;4 + 1/F’ wide line;bolt of electricity
Air Magics;6;Chain Lightning;1 round;The caster channels energy from the elemental plane of air to fire a bolt of lightning at a target, which then arcs to 3 + 1/2F other targets within 30 + 10/F’ of the first target dealing 6d6 points of lightning damage to all affected creatures.;4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;special*;arcing electricity
Air Magics;7;Fly;1 round;Fly enables the recipient to fly at a rate of 120 + 30/F’ per round. Simple actions can be performed without penalty while in flight, but only a single weapon attack can be made per round, weapon and maneuver skills cannot be used, and spell casting is impossible. The target cannot carry more than they could lift above their head. The caster can finesse this spell four times to allow the target to attack and cast spells while flying.;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;allow flight
Air Magics;8;Interference;1 round;For the duration of the spell, the caster produces a large quantity of electromagnetic noise. Any spells that utilize electricity or lightning require a 4d6 vs PWR check to cast. Additionally, forms of communication and items reliant on electricity are non-functional in the area unless they make the resistance check.;4d6 vs PWR negates;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;60 + 15/F’ radius;disrupt electromagnetism
Air Magics;9;Overcharge;1 reaction*;This spell is cast as a reaction when the caster casts a spell that deals lightning damage. Any lightning or electric-based spell cast in conjunction with this spell ignores 2 + 1/2F ranks of Resist Lightning. Additionally, True Immunity Lightning will only halve damage instead of granting full immunity to the caster’s lightning spell damage.;none;caster;instantaneous;single lightning spell;high voltage
Air Magics;10;Anaerobia;1 round;This spell satisfies the target’s need for oxygen, making normal breathing unnecessary. Anaerobia does not protect the target from possible physical damage caused by hostile environments, such as fire, extreme cold, etc. ;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;survive without air
Air Magics;11;Focused Discharge;1 round;A large bolt of lightning shoots down from the sky, hitting the radius, and everything above it. Creatures in the area of effect take 10d6 points of lightning damage. ;5d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;20 + 5/F’ radius;electrical explosion
Air Magics;12;Ekblovego;2 rounds;An Ekblovego is a massive blast or gust of wind traveling nearly 150 MPH. All free standing objects and creatures are blown up to 80 feet. If they hit an obstacle or wall, they suffer 1d6 blunt damage for each 10 feet they are blown. A successful STR resist check negates any push or damage from the wind. Some structural damage to buildings may even result (GM’s discretion). ;5d6 vs STR negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;30’ x (120 + 30/F’) line;massive gust of wind
Air Magics;13;Vacuum;1 round;Vacuum creates an airless space in the area of effect. Creatures that require air who fail the resistance check fall Unconscious. Fires are immediately extinguished, any winds becalmed, and other processes involving air are likewise halted. The GM will adjudicate any side-effects of the sudden decompression. ;5d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 120 + 30/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;30 + 10/F’ radius;remove air
Air Magics;14;Blitzen;1 round;Blitzen causes a storm of lightning to gather overhead, and calls lightning to strike a point within 60 + 15/F’ radius of the caster. All creatures in a 10’ radius of the lightning strike suffer 6d6 lightning damage. The caster, as a fifth, can cause another bolt of lightning to strike on subsequent turns during the duration of the spell. If this spell is cast during a thunderstorm, the damage is doubled to 12d6 per strike.;4d6 vs HEA halves;caster;8 + 2/F rounds;special*;lightning storm
Air Magics;14;Sensitivity to EM;4 rounds;This spell gives the caster the ability to perceive and make sense of electromagnetic waves. This would allow for them to intercept radio, and understand the flow of electricity through an object, among other things.;none;caster;1 + 1/F days;self;read EM signals
Air Magics;15;Aerovoki;4 rounds;Aerovoki summons 4 + 2/F air elementals to any point within the range and the caster’s LOS. Air must be available, of course.Refer to Appendix C: Spell Clarification for creature write ups and control mechanics.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;special*;summon air elementals
Air Magics;15;Elektrafulmo;2 rounds;The target of this spell gets struck by a blinding bolt from the sky, taking 14d6 lightning damage, or half on a successful resistance check. All those within 50 feet of the target half of that damage (quarter damage if they make the resistance check). Creatures within 100’ of the target must make a 4d6 vs HEA or go blind until healed (creatures that do not rely on eyesight are not affected by this).;6d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 200 + 50/F’;instantaneous;special*;blinding lightning
Air Magics;16;Kolerovego;2 rounds;Kolerovego allows the caster to summon a swirling storm of hurricane strength winds. Loose structures are swept up, and unreinforced buildings may be torn apart. Each round in the area of effect, all creatures except for the caster must make a 6d6 vs HEA resist check or suffer 3d6 blunt damage from being struck by flying debris and are moved 30’ in a random direction and land Prone. On a successful resist check, the creature takes half damage and is moved but not knocked prone.This spell may take on additional and/or modified effects depending on the terrain where it is cast:- Shoreline and oceanic environments create a storm of rain that Drenches all creatures in the area of effect and changes the damage from blunt to water.- Desert environments create a sandstorm which reduces visibility and range of hearing to 30’, and changes the damage from blunt to earth.- Snowscapes and tundras create a blizzard of drifting snow and hail that reduces the speed of creatures in the area of effect in half, and changes the damage from blunt to cold.- Other environmental effects may occur depending on GM discretion.Spell casting is impossible unless Verbal Cast (CS) is used and an additional 4d6 vs WIL check is made. The resistance check must be made each round. Psionic ability activation is impossible unless the creature is Rooted to the ground and immobile.;6d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 200 + 50/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;120 + 30/F’ radius;summon gale force winds
Vision;1;Murk;1 round;Murk causes dust motes in the environment to coalesce with water droplets to create a dirty, murky area. Creatures within the area must make the resist check or have their vision reduced to 100 - 20/F’. Murk is effective underwater as well as in air. This spell can be finessed 2 times to do the opposite effect, clearing haze, fog, murky water, or other similar phenomena.;4d6 vs PER negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;reduce visibility
Vision;2;Distortion;1 round;Distortion causes light rays to bend and shift erratically in the area of effect. Forms within the area become blurry, indistinct, and require outside observers to make a 4d6 vs PER check to make out. If failed, this spell imposes a -4 penalty to ranged attacks against targets in the area, and makes spell targeting impossible.;4d6 vs PER negates*;caster;10 + 5/F’ minutes;5 + 2/F’ radius;obscure vision
Vision;3;Chromatic Aberration;1 round;The caster causes light to scatter and bend off of the target, creating multicolored afterimages to the left and right of them. This slightly obscures their movements, and grants a 1 + 1/2F bonus to movement Defense Values.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;bend colors
Vision;4;Lens;1 reaction*;Lens is cast when the caster casts another line-of-sight ranged spell, targeting a creature that is behind cover. Lens adjusts the density of air between the caster and the target, bending line of sight for the caster so that they can target the coupled spell around cover.;none;caster;instantaneous;special*;bend LOS
Vision;5;Focus Vision;2 rounds;Focus Vision allows the caster to temporarily increase the target’s PER by 2 + 1/F for the duration of the spell. ;willing target;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;increase perception
Vision;6;Blindfold;1 round;The target of the spell is temporarily Blinded if they fail the resist check. It reattempts the resist check at the end of each of its turns, and on a success, the spell ends.;4d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;impose blindness
Vision;7;Eaglesight;2 rounds;Eaglesight enables the caster to see minute details that escape normal vision by magnifying things within their vision. For the duration, the caster gains 1 + 1/2F ranks of Exceptional PER.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;magnify vision
Vision;8;Parallax;1 round;Parallax causes the light around the target’s body to shift about suddenly. Attackers must try to correct for the sudden parallax error, in effect raising all the target’s magic Defense Values by 2 + 1/F.;willing target;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;blur body
Vision;9;Long Eyes;2 rounds;Long Eyes empowers the caster to see distant objects as if they are 4 + 1/F times closer. They must still have LOS, and certain atmospheric conditions (e.g. fog, haze, precipitation, etc.) can reduce the effectiveness by half. This also will increase the range of other LOS spells cast during Long Eyes’ duration. Finesses to increase the range of these spells are applied before Long Eyes multiplies the range.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;see further
Vision;10;Heat Vision;1 round;The recipient of this spell is empowered to see heat in addition to light. For the duration, the target gains 4 + 2/F ranks of Heat Vision.;4d6 vs PWR negates;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single creature;see heat
Vision;11;Night Sight;1 round;Night Sight enables the target to see in natural darkness and shadows as well as he can see in bright moonlight. This grants the target 4 + 1/F ranks of Night Vision. If the effect is fully finessed, they can even see in magical darkness or shadows. ;4d6 vs PWR negates;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single creature;see in the dark
Vision;11;Sight License;1 round;The recipient of a Sight License is granted the power of sight, even if it is blind or lacks sight organs.;4d6 vs PWR negates;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single creature;bestows sight
Vision;12;Invisibility;1 round;Invisibility surrounds the target and their equipment with a magical field which shifts light out of phase. An invisible person can walk about or open doors, but casting spells, activating psionics, or making attacks will cause the target to become visible until the beginning of their next turn. See Appendix C for additional clarifications. ;4d6 vs PWR negates;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single target;make unseeable
Vision;13;Arcane Telescope;1 reaction*;Arcane Telescope is cast as a reaction when the caster casts a LOS spell. This extends the targeting distance limit of a LOS spell up to 2,000,000 feet. ;none;caster;instantaneous;single LOS spell;extend targeting
Vision;14;Mass Blind;1 round;Mass Blind makes the targets Blinded for all forms of vision, both physical and magical for the duration. Echolocation and Tremor Sense do not count as vision for this spell.;5d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;12 + 3/F hours;3 + 1/F creatures;removes vision
Vision;15;Magic Vision;1 round;Magic Vision allows the target to see magical items and effects. This grants the target 4 + 2/F ranks of See Magic for the duration. Additionally, the target can see auras of magic around creatures, with varying orders of brightness that correspond to their units and magical creature abilities. The target automatically knows the type and power of the magic, without having to make Arcana checks to identify.;5d6 vs PWR negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;magic sight
Vision;16;See All;4 rounds;See All enables the caster to see through solid objects and creatures. Thus, the caster can cast a line of sight spell through any interposing creature or object subject to that spell’s normal range restrictions.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;create LOS
Scrying;1;Detect Motive;1 round;The caster may learn the target’s surface motivation during the spell’s duration. This would be the surface goal the creature has, but will lack context and be vague. Examples include but aren’t limited to “knowledge,” “power,” or “religion.” If the caster wishes to know more, they can delve deeper, which allows the target to make a 4d6 vs WIL check to resist, ending the spell on a success. The target does not know they are being probed unless the caster chooses to delve deeper.;4d6 vs WIL*;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;probe motive
Scrying;2;Hear;2 rounds;The caster first chooses an area within range, which does not have to be in their LOS. They may then hear, but not necessarily understand, any noises or speech in the area as if their ears were there. After casting Hear, the caster must remain motionless and concentrate or the spell is broken. When fully finessed, the caster can alternatively target a location they have memlocked for this spell.;none;120 + 30/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;30 + 10/F’ radius;remote hearing
Scrying;3;Read Thoughts;1 round;Read Thoughts allows the caster to know the surface thoughts of the targeted creature. These are very general and primal in nature, such as hunger, anger, contentment, sadness, etc., regardless of the creature’s INT. If the caster wishes to know more, they can delve deeper, which allows the target to make a 4d6 vs WIL check to resist, ending the spell on a success. The target does not know they are being probed unless the caster chooses to delve deeper.;4d6 vs WIL*;LOS 20 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;1 + 1/2F creatures;know thoughts
Scrying;4;Mask Motivation;1 round;Mask Motivation enables the caster to obscure that information, or feed false information (of the caster’s choice), to anyone using spells or other magic to detect or reveal it.;willing target;touch;2 + 1/F hours;1 + 1/F creatures;mask motivation
Scrying;5;See;2 rounds;The caster selects an area within range, but not necessarily in LOS, then casts See. They may then see everything in the area as if their eyes were there. After casting See, the caster must remain motionless and concentrate or the spell is broken. When fully finessed, the caster can alternatively target a location they have memlocked for this spell.;none;120 + 30/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;30 + 10/F’ radius;remote vision
Scrying;6;Witchsmeller;1 round;Any enchanted items in the area of effect glow with a silver aura in the eyes of the caster. Very magical items, such as relics or artifacts, glow with a gold aura. Other spells or skills must be used to gain more knowledge (e.g. Know Element, etc.). ;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;20 + 5/F’ radius;detect magic
Scrying;7;Reveal Motive;1 round;The caster targets 2 + 1/F creatures within range and instantly learns their surface motivations, and they must make a 4d6 vs WIL resist check or the caster knows context and true motivations, regardless of any surface deceptions. If any magical effects exist to deceive this spell, roll a contested 7d6 against the other spell’s rank in d6 to pierce through the deception.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;2 + 1/F creatures;see motive
Scrying;8;Locate;2 rounds;Locate allows the caster to locate any item or creature which they have previously seen or touched. The caster first visualizes the target of their search. The caster can see a search beam emanating from them, and a marker appears as soon as the subject is within 1000 feet of the caster. If the subject is a creature, it makes the resist check to hide from this search beam. This marker can only be seen by the caster, and shows the distance and direction to the subject.;4d6 vs WIL negates;special*;10 + 5/F minutes;special*;discover location
Scrying;9;Senses;2 rounds;The Senses spell allows the caster to have all of their senses operate remotely. As with Hear and See, this spell can be fully finessed to be cast on a memlocked location.  This poses certain risks, for damaging effects present in the remote area can attack the magician through the spell. For example, if blinding light flashes where the caster is viewing remotely, they can be Blinded as if they were there. The caster must remain motionless and concentrate for the spell’s duration. ;none;120 + 30/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;30 + 10/F’ radius;remote senses
Scrying;10;Truthtell;1 round;Any creature failing the resistance check must answer all the caster’s questions truthfully and completely for the duration of the spell. If they succeed the resist check, they cannot speak a deliberate lie, but can either stay silent or skirt around the truth. ;5d6 vs WIL partial*;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;compel candor
Scrying;11;Foresight;1 minute;Foresight enables the caster to determine what will happen in the immediate future (1 + 1/F days) by asking yes-or-no questions to the elemental spirits around them. The truthfulness of the answers is from 60 + 5/F percent. If not truthful, responses can be totally false, or couched as half-truths (GM’s discretion).;none;caster;3 + 1/F questions;self;see into future
Scrying;12;Reveal Legends;10 minutes;Reveal Legends is used to gain knowledge of the items, places, and people of antiquity. The caster can learn from 3 + 1/2F pieces of information about the subject in the form of clues, or as a range of numbers. The information is always truthful, but the player must make correct interpretations. This could include previous owners of an item, or notable deeds performed by a person, or battles that occurred at a site. Any Lore checks about the subject are two dice easier for the next hour.;none;special*;instantaneous;special*;know lore
Scrying;13;Planar Contact;10 minutes;The caster mentally contacts a servitor, spirit, or other mysterious entity from another plane. If they have such a target memlocked, they can directly contact that specific target, otherwise, the contact is determined by the GM (they may ask for a high-or-low roll for a benevolent or malevolent contact). The caster can then ask 3 + 1/2F questions, which the extraplanar contact answers.;none;special*;3 + 1/2F questions;special*;contact extraplanar mind
Scrying;14;Miskarburo;1 round;Miskarburo protects the caster from any scrying attempts, and also reverses the process so that they find out what information the opposing scryer was seeking from them, imposing a 6d6 vs PWR check to negate. The caster also learns the instantaneous direction and distance of the attempt.;6d6 vs PWR negates;caster;12 + 3/F hours;self;backfire scrying
Scrying;15;Scan;1 minute;The caster must first decide on what piece of information they want to know (“horses nearby?”, “any carnivorous plants in the area?” etc.). When the spell is cast, a beam of violet light shoots from the magician’s eyes and sweeps the area like a searchlight, which highlights all instances of the scan for the caster. These highlights inform the caster of the distance and direction of said subjects. The beam continuously sweeps and updates for the duration of the spell.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;1000 + 500/F’ radius;scan area
Scrying;16;Mind Scan;1 round;The caster can read surface level thoughts of any creature within the area of effect. Any scrying spell casted while this effect is active has its resistance check increased to 6 dice.By reading minds of surrounding creatures, the caster may reduce all resistance or attribute checks imposed as a result of creatures’ actions by 2 dice. Inanimate hazards such as traps or environmental hazards are unaffected.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;200 + 50/F’ radius;read minds
Air Forms;1;Sweet Breeze;1 round;Sweet breeze causes the air immediately around the target to be lightly perfumed and sweet smelling. It does not create air, nor purify the air that the target breathes.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;freshen air
Air Forms;2;Stolen Breath;1 round;The target of Stolen Breath must make the resistance check or have the air in its lungs forcibly removed, and is Stunned for the next round, as it must gasp for air. A creature that doesn’t need to breathe is immune to this effect.;4d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;instantaneous;single creature;knock the wind out
Air Forms;3;Fists of Wind;1 round;Fists of Wind creates two solid fists of air which pummel the target. This causes the target 2d6 points of blunt damage and knocks them prone. If they succeed at the resistance check, they take half damage and remain standing. ;3d6 vs STR halves;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F rounds;single creature;pummel with wind
Air Forms;4;Whispering Air;2 rounds;Whispering Air allows the caster to amplify and mute certain frequencies, sharpening the sound waves that reach their ears. They receive 2 dice off any Listen checks, or remove the extra dice on defaulting the skill if they do not have it.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;hear sounds
Air Forms;5;Thunderclap;1 round;Thunderclap creates hundreds of tiny vacuums which collapse with a deafening roar. All within the area of effect must make the resistance check or be temporarily Deafened. Every 10 minutes, a Deafened creature reattempts the resistance check for their hearing to return, beginning with 3d6, and progressively at one die fewer until successful.;4d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 120 + 30/F’;1 + 1/F rounds;30 + 5/F’ radius;loud thunder
Air Forms;6;Talons;1 round;This spell creates ripping claws of air which rush along in a cone from the caster’s hand. All in the cone take 4d6 edged damage and must make an attribute check of four dice against AGI. Those that fail the resistance check by 5 or more are pushed back 20’ and knocked prone. Non-living objects will also be affected by the spell, and may be pushed back or damaged as appropriate.;4d6 vs AGI halves;caster;1 + 1/F rounds;5’ x (30 + 5/F’) cone;claws of air
Air Forms;7;Twister;1 rounds;Twister creates a whirring torrent of air in a 5’ radius centered upon a point in range. Any creature that starts their turn in the twister must make the 4d6 vs STR or be pushed 10 feet in a random direction, fall prone, and take 2d6 blunt damage. As a fifth, the caster can move the twister up to 20’ in any direction.The twister may suck up loose sand, dust, dirt, or other particulate matter and cause the nearby area to be obscured, with GM’s discretion.;4d6 vs STR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;5’ radius;dust devil
Air Forms;8;Foul Gas;1 rounds;This spell creates a noxious gas cloud which obscures vision and sickens those inside it. Those failing a resistance check are at -4 to all attack and skill rolls while inside. The resistance check must be made every round while inside the smoke or until failed. The gas can be moved by air currents but will retain its size and effect until the duration expires. ;4d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’’;1 + 1/F minutes;20 + 5/F’ radius;sickening gas cloud
Air Forms;9;Confusion Mist;2 rounds;Confusion Mist creates a swirling sphere of color. Those inside must make a resistance check every round or become totally disoriented and unable to take any action other than stumble about blindly. The mists can be moved by air currents but will retain their size and effect until the duration expires.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;30 + 10/F’ radius;cause confusion
Air Forms;10;Boundaries;1 round;This spell allows the caster to sense the location of the boundaries of the air in the area of effect, allowing him to function in pure darkness by knowing the shape and location of everything in the area.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;60 + 15/F’ radius;sense surroundings
Air Forms;11;Air Wall;1 minute;Air Wall creates a wall of solid yet transparent air. The wall must be straight and can be of any size to a maximum length of 100 feet and a height of 50 feet. An attribute check of six dice against STR will allow a creature to push through. Ranged projectiles are automatically deflected off the wall, but LOS targeting of spells are unaffected.;none;LOS 200 + 50/F’;12 + 3/F hours;special*;create wall of air
Air Forms;12;Vento’kiraso;2 rounds;Vento’kiraso creates a protective swirling wind around the target. For the duration of the spell, they have the following benefits. They gain +6 to Magic Ranged DVs. They gain a flying speed equal to their land movement speed. They can forcibly expel the wind in a 30’ radius around them as an action. All in the radius except for the target of Vento’kiraso must make a 5d6 vs STR to halve 6d6 blunt damage. Those who fail the resist check are additionally knocked prone. Taking this action ends the spell immediately.;willing target;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;armor of wind
Air Forms;13;Air Stones;1 round;Air Stones creates hundreds of rock sized balls of solid air. These balls stream from the caster’s hand, causing 10d6 blunt damage to all in their path. Those that fail the resistance check by 5 or more are pushed back 40’ and knocked prone.;5d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F rounds;5’ x (50 + 5/F’) cone;bludgeoning air
Air Forms;14;Air Items;2 rounds;Air Items creates a translucent yet solid item out of the ambient air. The size of the item is limited to what will fit within the area of effect, and only one item is possible at a time. Others can use the item, so an air ladder could carry as many people as a regular one. Once the item is created, it persists for the duration and then vanishes. The item can be picked up and carried. ;none;LOS 5’;1 + 1/F minutes;up to 100 + 50/F’ radius;create item from air
Air Forms;15;Poison Gas;2 rounds;Poison Gas creates a cloud of swirling, toxic gas. All in the area of effect must make the resistance check every round they are in the gas or die. The gas can be moved by air currents but will retain its size and effect until the duration expires, at which time it simply vanishes. ;5d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;20 + 5/F’ radius;create cloud of poison
Air Forms;16;Air Form;1 minute;The caster touches willing creatures during the casting of this spell, and upon casting, the targets and their equipment assume a gaseous form of invisible wind. The targets are Immaterial for the duration of the spell, and can control their movements and aren’t affected by other air currents. They have a flying speed of 300 feet per round, and can enter anywhere a gas can enter. ;willing targets;multitouch;10 + 5/F minutes;touched creatures;become wind
Illusions;1;Dancing Lights;1 round;This spell creates a series of lights that appear to dance in a somewhat hypnotizing manner around the caster. Creatures that fail the resistance check are distracted by the lights and are Dazed for the duration of the spell, repeating the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on a success. The spell is broken if an affected creature is attacked or damaged in any way.;3d6 vs INT negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;20 + 5/F’ radius;distract creatures
Illusions;2;Blurring Aura;1 round;This spell creates a blurring aura around the target that makes them completely unrecognizable. The blur around the target is quite obvious and will clearly be out of place.;willing target;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single target;blur identity
Illusions;3;Visual Illusion;1 rounds;This spell allows the caster to create any static visual illusion within the constraints of the spell area. This illusion has all of the visual components of the real thing, but will not move, has no substance and produces no heat, sound, etc. ;none;LOS 300’;10 + 5/F minutes;10’ radius;create visual illusion
Illusions;4;Lesser Ignore;2 rounds;This spell will allow the caster to see through any illusion of spell rank 7 or lower (or an equivalent form of magic). When this spell is active, the illusion is completely ignored, so they are unable to see, hear, touch, etc. any illusion, unless it is their own, for the duration of the spell. This means that they are unaware that such an illusion even exists.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;see through illusions
Illusions;5;Minor Illusion;1 round;This spell allows the caster to create a minor auditory, tactile, or scent illusion at the target point of the caster’s choice. This could include the sound of a bird calling or a cry for help, a tremor in the earth or a slight draft, or the smell of baked bread or burning. None of these effects will cause any harm to anyone experiencing it.;none;LOS 300’;10 + 5/F minutes;30 + 10/F’ radius;minor illusion
Illusions;5;Disguise Self;2 rounds;The caster first visualizes the memlocked image of a person and concentrates. Disguise Self then makes the caster appear as that person, including clothing. The caster cannot change their general size with this magic, but can adjust height by up to 1 + 1/2F feet and weight by up to 20 + 5/F lbs. Without a memlocked image the spell will change the caster’s appearance to an average member of the caster’s base species.;none;caster;6 + 2/F hours;self;disguises self
Illusions;6;Illusory Projection;1 round;1 + 1/F illusory duplicates of the target appear in its space. Until the spell ends, the duplicates move with the target and mimic their actions, shifting position so it's impossible to track which image is real. Each time the target is targeted with an attack during the spell's duration, roll a die to determine whether the actual target or an illusion is targeted. There is an equal chance for any of the illusions or the actual target to be hit. Roll a d2 for 1 illusion, a d3 for 2 illusions, and so on. On 1, the target is hit.A duplicate's defense values are equal to the target’s touch defense values If an attack hits a duplicate, the duplicate is destroyed. A duplicate can be destroyed only by an attack that hits it, and is not affected by areas of effect. It ignores all other damage and effects. The spell ends early if all duplicates are destroyed.;willing target;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;create mirror images
Illusions;7;Illusory Fear;1 round;You plant a frightening illusion within the mind of the targeted creature, and if they fail the resist check, they regard it as if it were real. The target creature is Frightened and runs in a random direction (but not where they would be obviously harmed). At the end of each of the target’s rounds, they reattempt the resist check, ending the spell on a success. The illusion is only perceivable by the target, and the target rationalizes any illogical outcomes from interacting with it, and it cannot be directly harmed by the illusion.;4d6 vs INT negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;frightening illusion
Illusions;8;Motion Illusion;1 round;This spell works the same as Visual Illusion except that the illusion can move within the radius and the caster can control it. This illusion has all of the visual components of the real thing, but has no substance and produces no heat, sound, etc. With two finesses, the caster can include sound and scent into the illusion as well. With four finesses, the caster can include thermal and tactile components to the illusion (an illusory storm will look, sound, smell, and feel like a storm).;none;LOS 300’;30 + 10/F minutes;30 + 10/F’ radius;moving visual illusion
Illusions;9;Shroud;2 rounds;This spell will cause all creatures in the radius to be under an invisible shroud which will hide their presence to anyone, including others within the shroud. Any movement or sound by a creature within the shroud will make them visible until this movement or sound is stopped.;none;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;invisible shroud
Illusions;9;Phantasmal Spell;special*;This spell allows the caster to appear to cast any elemental spell. The spell will duplicate the visual, sound and smell effects of the original spell, but will be completely harmless. It cannot duplicate any spell whose effect is visual only. It is possible for creatures to lose a round of action due to surprise.  The casting time, target, duration, and area of effect are identical to the original spell, so permanent spells would last until the phantasmal spell is dropped or revoked and the spells can be plugged as normal via the Maintained Cast (CS).;none;special*;special*;special*;duplicate spell
Illusions;10;Illusory Self;2 rounds;Illusory Self projects a non-transparent, real-seeming image of the caster up to 50 + 30/F’ away which can move, sound and smell either independently or under control of the caster. The image can range from one inch in size up to the caster’s true size. The caster can spend a fifth to mentally command the illusion to appear to take an action. Otherwise the illusion independently appears to perform something appropriate for its surroundings.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;self;make decoy
Illusions;11;Greater Ignore;2 rounds;This spell will allow the target to see through any illusion magic. When this spell is active, the illusion does not at all affect them, so they are unable to see, hear, touch, etc. any illusion, unless it is their own, for the duration of the spell. This means that they are unaware that an illusion even exists.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;ignore greater illusions
Illusions;12;Extend Illusion;1 minute;This spell is cast upon a caster's existing Illusion (any spell in this group with the word “illusion” at the end of its name) to extend its duration. The amount of the extension depends upon the number of finesses as follows: 0 – 1 day; 1 – 1 week; 2 – 1 month; 3 – 6 months; 4 – 1 year. An illusion that has been extended using this spell cannot be extended a second time. ;none;300’;special*;single illusion;extend duration
Illusions;13;Major Illusion;2 rounds;This spell allows the caster to create a very large illusion with the same components as a fully finessed Motion Illusion (visual, sound, smell, motion, heat, and tactile components).;none;LOS 2000’;10 + 5/F minutes;200’ radius;creates big illusion
Illusions;14;Displacement;2 rounds;This spell makes the caster invisible for the duration, and also creates an illusionary version of them 10 + 2/F’ away from the caster. This illusion is semi-intelligent and will move as if an independent entity behaving in a similar fashion as the caster is acting. All sound, smell, and heat given off by the caster instead comes from the illusion, but the illusion is not solid and is not affected by targeted attacks or spells (except Revoke) and cannot take any damage. ;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;displace self
Illusions;15;Illusory Casting;1 round;If the target of this spell fails the resistance check, all of the spells (with the exception of Revocation) cast by them for the duration are cast as illusions. They will have all the visual, sound, and smell components, but will not have any other effect and cause no damage. The caster of these spells must still spend units for the cast spells. ;6d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;single target;make spells illusions
Illusions;16;Neverending Illusion;1 minute;This spell is cast upon a caster's existing Illusion (any spell in this group with the word “illusion” at the end of its name) to extend its duration to permanent. The illusion can still be Revoked.;none;special*;permanent;special*;permanent illusion
Illusions;16;Living Nightmare;1 round;Drawing on the deepest fears of a group of creatures, the caster creates nightmarish illusions in their minds, visible only to them. Each creature in the area must make a 6d6 vs WIL check. On a fail, a creature becomes Frightened for the duration. The illusion calls on the creature's deepest fears, manifesting its worst nightmares as an implacable threat. At the end of each of a Frightened creature's turns, it must reattempt the 6d6 vs WIL resist check, or take 4d10 mental damage. On a successful save, there is no damage and the spell ends for that creature.;6d6 vs WIL negates;120 + 30/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;30 + 10/F’ radius;deepest fears
Smoke;1;Cloud;1 round;Cloud creates a white cloud of smoke that lightly obscures all objects within the area of effect. Visibility is reduced to 40 feet for creatures inside the cloud.;none;LOS 120 + 30/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;cloud of smoke
Smoke;2;Incense;1 round;The caster creates a cloud of gray, lightly obscuring smoke that fills the area with a non-offensive odor. The exact smell of the incense is of the caster’s choosing. Visibility is reduced to 40 feet for creatures inside the cloud. ;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;scented smoke
Smoke;3;Smog;1 round;The caster summons a small fire, which creates a brown, lightly obscuring, noxious cloud of smoke that contains dust and other fine particles. Anyone in the area of effect that fails the resistance check begins coughing and is Dazed. They reattempt the resist check at the beginning of each turn while within the smog. Visibility is reduced to 40 feet for creatures inside the cloud.;4d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 30 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;unpleasant smoke
Smoke;4;Hide;1 round;The area of effect is filled with a thick black smoke that prohibits anyone from seeing through the area. Creatures inside the radius are Blinded. Alternate forms of vision can be used to see through the smoke.;none;LOS 20 + 5/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;thick smoke
Smoke;5;Tint;2 rounds;Tint causes a crystal or glass object to darken and become semi-opaque. This will block half of all light from passing through the object. Light-based spells passing through the affected glass are affected accordingly (GM’s discretion). A magical item must make a 3d6 vs PWR to negate this effect.;none;touch;12 + 3/F hours;single glass object;tint glass
Smoke;6;Tear Gas;2 rounds;This spell creates a white cloud of smoke that causes all breathing creatures within it that fail the resistance check to be brought to tears. Their vision is reduced to 30 feet, which inhibits Line of Sight targeting for ranged attacks and spells. They reattempt the resist check at the beginning of each turn while within the tear gas.;4d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;tear gas smoke
Smoke;7;Intoxicating Cloud;2 rounds;This spell creates a light green smoke that fills the area. Those in it who fail the resistance check feel the effects normally associated with a rank 1 Sago Weed: they receive a +2 magical bonus to their CSE attribute and any non-magical mental illnesses are temporarily cleared. If the affected creature leaves the area of effect, the effects remain for an additional half hour. A creature reattempts the resistance check every 5 minutes spent within the smoke.;4d6 vs HEA negates;LSO 20 + 5/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;drugged smoke
Smoke;8;Sleep Smoke;2 rounds;This spell creates a light purple smoke that fills the area. All creatures within the area of effect that fail the resistance check fall into a magical sleep for 30 + 10/F minutes. Resistance checks must be made for every round that a creature is in the area of effect.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;sleeping smoke
Smoke;9;Spirit Smoke;2 rounds;This spell creates a light red smoke that fills the area and outlines all ethereal creatures and spirits. If the creature fails a 4d6 vs PWR check, they become material, obtaining a form that best fits their shape, and maintaining the ability to fly. They will become immaterial again one round after they exit the smoke.;special*;LOS 40 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;spirit revealing smoke
Smoke;10;Pain Smoke;2 rounds;This spell creates damaging white smoke in the area. Targets in the area of effect who breathe in the smoke will start coughing violently and take 4d6 pain damage, or half as much on a successful resist check. The resist check and damage are repeated each round a creature remains in the smoke. ;5d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;damaging smoke
Smoke;11;Cataract;2 rounds;If the target fails the resistance check, then they develop cataracts in both of their eyes. The lenses of their eyes cloud over and their vision is reduced to 120 - 30/F feet.;5d6 vs HEA negates;touch;permanent;single creature;cloud vision
Smoke;12;Smoke Armor;1 round;This spell creates a suit of smoke armor that envelops the caster. It gives the defense values of (10/10/6). This armor has no movement and attribute penalties.;none;caster;12 + 3/F hours;self;create magical armor
Smoke;13;Gaseous Form;2 rounds;The target assumes a gaseous form that resembles a cloud smoke of any color the caster chooses. While in this form, the target can pass through small cracks, pipes, or move through the air at their normal land movement rate. Wind conditions can affect the target’s normal movement. In this form, the target is considered immaterial. ;willing target;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;turn to smoke
Smoke;14;Burning Smoke;1 round;The caster summons a small fire which creates a cloud of blue, acidic smoke. The acid suspended in the smoke will cause 5d6 acid damage to any creature in the area of effect. The resist check and damage are repeated each round a creature remains in the smoke. The cloud can be moved by natural or magical wind, but will retain its shape for the duration of the spell. Fresh Air or similar spells will not purify the area. ;5d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;40 + 10/F’ radius;acidic smoke
Smoke;15;Fumivoki;4 rounds;Fumivoki summons 4 + 2/F smoke elementals within the target area.Refer to Appendix C: Spell Clarification for creature write ups and control mechanics.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;special*;summon smoke elementals
Smoke;16;Killer Smoke;2 rounds;This spell summons a cloud of lethal smoke. Those in the area of effect must make the resistance check each round they remain in the area of effect or die.;6d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 120 + 30/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10’ radius;deadly smoke
Storms;1;Umbrella;1 round;Umbrella creates a force field a foot above the target’s head that follows them. This field will protect them from drizzle or light rain. The water will slide off the field and not touch the caster. This will prevent the Drenched condition from light rain.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;2 + 1/F hours;1 + 1/F creatures;block rain
Storms;2;Forecast;1 minute;The caster beseeches the elemental spirits of the wind around them, and learns the weather forecast for the next 4 + 1/F days. This would be the natural weather that will occur, barring any magic or unpredictable effects.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;know weather
Storms;3;Raincloud;1 round;Raincloud summons a thin, grey cloud a few feet above the target point, which will begin drizzling onto creatures within the radius. Any creature that ends their turn under the cloud will become Drenched.The caster can use an action on their turn to move the raincloud up to 20 feet in any direction.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;create light rain
Storms;4;Thunderstorm;1 minute;This spell must be cast outside. If it is already storming, this spell will change the storm to the casted effect (a magical storm must make a 4d6 vs PWR to negate).The caster, over the course of a minute, begins gathering elemental energy from the plane of water and sending it into the atmosphere. Once formed, the storm breaks with a heavy rain and lightning strikes. The caster has no control over the storm after it is formed.;none;caster;1 + 1/F hours;600 + 150/F’ radius;call thunderstorm
Storms;5;Storm Sphere;1 round;Gathering power from the elemental planes of water and air, the caster generates a swirling storm of water and lightning. The sphere is a 5’ radius, and any creatures that begin their turn in the sphere must make a 3d6 vs AGI to halve 3d6 water damage. As a fifth, the caster can cause an arc of lightning to strike at a creature within melee range of the sphere, and they must make a 3d6 vs AGI to halve 3d6 lightning damage.As an action, the caster can move the sphere up to 30 feet in any direction.;3d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;special*;sphere of lightning
Storms;6;Galestorm;2 rounds;This spell must be cast outside. If it is already storming, this spell will change the storm to the casted effect (a magical storm must make a 4d6 vs PWR to negate).The caster electrically charges the air around them, and wind begins to whip up as rain begins to fall. Any creatures within the area, including the caster, can cast air and water spells easier, lowering the unit cost of these spells by 1, with a minimum cost of 1 unit.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;30 + 10/F’ radius;call galestorm
Storms;7;Lightning Spear;2 rounds;Lightning Spear allows the caster to create spears of lightning in their hands, which can be wielded as either a melee or throwing weapon. After the spell is cast, the caster can use a fifth to create a spear of lightning in their hands. This spear counts as an Impaling/Thrown weapon, has no STR requirement, and deals a base 2d6 of lightning damage on a hit, or d20+4 lightning damage on impale. It provides no weapon DVs, and has a range of 20’ if thrown. If the weapon is thrown, it disappears after it hits or misses, and the caster must spend a fifth to create a new one.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minute;self;create spears of lightning
Storms;8;Storm Step;1 round;This spell must be cast under a storm, either natural or created by a spell in this group.The caster teleports LOS 60 + 15/F’ away, and a bolt of lightning crashes down. All creatures in a 10’ radius from the position they were standing must make a 4d6 vs HEA check to halve 6d6 lightning damage.;none, 4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’, caster;instantaneous;self, 10’ radius;teleport in lightning strike
Storms;9;Storm Whip;1 reaction*;As a reaction to being hit with a combat attack, the caster lashes out with a whip of crackling lightning and water. The target creature must make a 4d6 vs AGI to halve 6d6 lightning or water damage (caster’s choice). If they fail the resistance check, they are also Drenched.;4d6 vs AGI halves;special*;instantaneous;single creature;storm retribution
Storms;10;Stormo’kiraso;1 round;The target is granted armor of dark billowing clouds, which flashes with internal lightning. While wearing the armor, the target gains a rank of Resist Lightning or Resist Water (caster’s choice). Additionally, any creature that hits the target with a combat attack takes 1d6 lightning damage as it arcs from the armor. This damage occurs per hit.;willing target;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;storm armor
Storms;11;Icestorm;2 rounds;This spell must be cast outside. If it is already storming, this spell will change the storm to the casted effect (a magical storm must make a 5d6 vs PWR to negate).The caster summons powerful winds, rain, and invokes chilling temperatures in the target area. Each creature that ends their turn within the area must make a 5d6 vs AGI check to halve 4d6 cold/ice or water damage (caster’s choice).;5d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;1 + 1/F minute;20 + 5/F’ radius;call hailstorm
Storms;12;Maelstrom;1 round;This spell must be cast outside. If it is already storming, this spell will change the storm to the casted effect (a magical storm must make a 5d6 vs PWR to negate).Maelstrom creates a whirling mass of wind, rain, and lightning about the caster, who stands unaffected in the eye of the storm. The maelstrom moves with the caster. At the start of each of the caster’s turns, they can choose whether the storm is composed of torrential rain, crackling lightning, or pummeling hail. Each creature that ends their turn in the maelstrom must make a 5d6 vs HEA resist check to halve 4d6 of water (rain), lightning (lightning), or ice/cold (hail) damage based on the caster’s previous choice.In addition, creatures that fail the resist check are affected with the associated condition until their next turn:Rain – Drenched; Lightning – Dazed; Hail – Movement reduced by half. ;5d6 vs HEA halves;caster;1 + 1/F minute;60 + 15/F’ radius;fury of the storm
Storms;13;Cyclone;1 round;The caster summons a cyclone on a point within range, which is a cylinder of 10’ radius and 30’ high. A creature in the cyclone must make a 5d6 vs STR resist check or take 10d6 blunt damage, half on a success. If they fail the check, the creature is additionally Grappled by the cyclone. The cyclone can only grapple one creature at a time, and rolls 6d6 on the contested STR check to maintain the grapple.As an action, the caster can move the cyclone up to 60 feet in any direction. If the cyclone is grappling a creature, the creature moves with the cyclone and remains Grappled.;5d6 vs STR*;LOS 120 + 30/F’;1 + 1/F minute;10’ radius, 30’ high;summon cyclone
Storms;14;Quell;1 round;Quell allows the caster to calm any natural storm, and acts as a rank 14 Revoke on any magical storm. The skies calm, winds die, and rain stops. Any environmental hazards or storm-based abilities are negated by this.;none;LOS;instantaneous;2000’ radius;quell storm
Storms;15;Stormovoki;4 rounds;Stormovoki summons 4 + 2/F storm elementals from a source of water or air.Refer to Appendix C: Spell Clarification for creature write ups and control mechanics.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;special*;storm elementals
Storms;16;Pluvego;2 rounds;This spell must be cast outside. If it is already storming, this spell will change the storm to the casted effect (a magical storm must make a 6d6 vs PWR to negate).Pluvego utilized wind to sharpen rain in a storm into small blades of ice. The rain of the affected storm will change from water damage (if any) to edged damage, and will add an extra 3d6 of edged damage to the rain. If there is no other associated resist check, the resist check for this damage is 6d6 vs HEA to halve.;special*;special*;special*;single storm;sharpen rain
Dimensions;1;Shimmer;1 round;While under the influence of Shimmer, the target’s physical form appears indistinct and wavering, effectively increasing their combat magic defense value by 2 + 1/F. The caster must be touched by air while casting the spell. ;3d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;increase combat DV
Dimensions;2;Thought Move;1 round;Thought Move allows movement of a non-living, free standing object of 20 + 5/F pounds or less that is in the caster’s LOS, from one place to another within the target range. Since the motion is slow, no damage is inflicted from striking other objects, unless circumstances dictate otherwise (walking into a set spear, falling from a height, etc.).;none;LOS 20 + 5/F’;instantaneous;single object;move object
Dimensions;3;Send Object;1 round;To use this spell, the caster holds an object of 5 lbs. or less, and then sends it to a memlocked location.;none;touch;instantaneous;single object;send small object
Dimensions;3;Pocket Rift;4 rounds;This spell allows the caster to open a small window into a memlocked location in another plane in their hand. The window is very small and unstable, and the Rift must make the 4d6 vs PWR check for a creature or object to be able to pass through. The window is tied to the area around the casters hand(s) and will vanish prematurely if the hand frame is removed or broken. Stabilize will allow the frame to be broken and leave the portal intact.;4d6 vs PWR*;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;caster’s hands;small portal
Dimensions;4;Peer;2 rounds;Peer enables the caster to monitor any memlocked location via stable pocket Rift for the spell’s duration. Only sight is allowed; no sounds, smells, etc. can be discovered. The Rift opening on the other side will appear to be a wavering indistinct space in the air. There is a 4d6 vs PER check to notice the wavering air.;none;memlocked location;10 + 5/F minutes;60’ radius;see through rift
Dimensions;5;Magic Fence;1 round;When this spell is cast, the area centered on the caster is bounded by a glowing boundary (shaped to the caster’s choosing). Other planer and immaterial creatures, and magically transported objects cannot pass this line unless the resistance check is made (objects save against the WIL of the caster of the spell transporting it).;4d6 vs WIL negates;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;40 + 10/F’ radius;exclude summoning
Dimensions;6;Call Object;2 round;Call Object allows the caster to retrieve 1 + 1/F objects (each 5 lbs. or less) from a memlocked location (such as a storage space used with Send Object). The five objects do not need to be at the same location, but all locations the caster is withdrawing from must be memlocked.;none;special*;instantaneous;1 + 1/F objects;recall from storage
Dimensions;6;Stabilize;4 rounds;Stabilize will allow the caster to stabilize unstable portals extending their duration by 4 + 2/F hours, after which they will close. This spell cannot be cast on the same portal twice. This spell can extend the duration of all portals and Rifts created by this group.;none;LOS 5’;4 + 2/F hours;single unstable RIft;stabilize portals
Dimensions;7;Hole;1 round;This creates a circular hole that is 6 + 6/F inches deep in any non-living object. No light can pass through this hole, making it appear totally black, but objects and creatures can pass through with no resistance. Magical objects that succeed at a resistance check of 4d6 against PWR will not pass through the hole. If the hole pierces through to the other side of the object, it also appears completely black on that side.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;6 + 6/F” radius;create hole
Dimensions;7;Spatial Fold;1 round;This spell folds a 20 + 5/F’ cube of space onto itself, centered on the caster, trapping any creatures and objects within the cube with the caster in the fold. From the inside, the edges of the space appear waving, like a mirage. From the outside, a two-dimensional shimmering fold that occupies a 5’ cube marks where the space used to be. Creatures and objects can enter or exit the fold by making a 4d6 vs PWR check.;4d6 vs PWR negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;20 + 5/F’ cube;private battle
Dimensions;8;Giant Stride;2 rounds;Giant Stride allows the caster to shorten distances somewhat by opening a portal next to the caster, and a paired one within LOS 160 + 40/F’. The portal is invisible, except to the caster and touched targets of this spell. The starting and ending points must be touched by air. On the round this spell is cast, the caster and touched targets may step through the portal at the end of the round. Outside observers see the targets disappear into thin air, then reappear in the blink of an eye. The portal remains open unless the caster spends 1 EU to drop the spell, so other creatures can stumble through the invisible portal.;none;multitouch;1 + 1/F minutes;touched targets;create doorway
Dimensions;9;Send Package;2 rounds;An inanimate object of up to 100 + 10/F pounds and no more than 2 + 1/F feet radius can be sent to any memlocked location. A magical object must make a 4d6 vs PWR to negate this effect.;none;touch;instantaneous;single object;send package
Dimensions;9;Abjurative Rift;1 reaction*;The caster creates a small tear in the fabric of reality that protects them from an incoming combat or ranged attack they can see. A Rift is opened up in the attack’s way which redirects it through a second Rift that the caster opens up next to a creature within the range. The attack passes through one rift and out the other, and it is treated as targeting that creature’s DVs instead. This spell can be used to cause an attack to hit the attacker themself if desired.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single attack;redirect attack
Dimensions;9;Rend;2 rounds;Rend creates a large, jagged, Rift in front of the caster to the mirrored plane of Valo'ani (see the sidebar located beneath this spell group) and allows the caster and other willing allies to pass through while the spell remains active; unwilling creatures require a 3d6 vs PWR check to move across the rift. The rift can be accessed from either side and while the rift is up, the other side only projects the destination and obscures anything behind it. When this spell is cast within Valo'ani, it instead requires a memlocked location on the desired plane and opens there. Once the rift has closed, a creature that is trapped in the Valo’ani may make a 3d6 vs PWR to return to a random safe location on their home plane once a day.;3d6 vs PWR*;LOS 10’ / memlock;1 minute;3 + 1/F’ radius;portal to Valo’ani
Dimensions;10;Pocket;2 rounds;When this spell is cast, a small opening to a small elemental demiplane appears suspended in air, visible only to the caster and anyone they touch during the casting time. If they enter, they appear to vanish into thin air. Normal humanoid life is supported in the dimension, and at the end of the duration anyone still within the dimension is pushed out to their starting point. The caster must be touching air for this magic to work. ;none;multitouch;10 + 5/F minutes;touched targets;open elemental pocket
Dimensions;11;Portable Hole;1 minute;This spell creates a dimensional hole in any non-living object identical to the Hole spell. However, grasping the hole by the outside edge, the Portable Hole can be peeled off, rolled up, and reused elsewhere. Magical objects get a resistance check of 4d6 against PWR to negate the effect.;none;touch;6 + 2/F hours;6 + 6/F” radius;create portable hole
Dimensions;11;Tesseract;1 round;Space starts to fold and shift around the caster; walls and floors start to harmlessly move around, and navigating the space becomes difficult. The affected area becomes difficult terrain and the movement speed of all creatures but the caster is halved.  All creatures except the caster must make a 4d6 vs AGI check to avoid being knocked prone if they start their turn in the area, or enter the area. They must repeat this check every round.;4d6 vs AGI negates;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;60 + 15/F’ cube;hinder movement
Dimensions;12;Call Package;4 rounds;Call Package allows the caster to retrieve 1 + 1/F packages (each up to 140 pounds and no more than 6 feet radius) from a memlocked location (such as a storage space used with Send Package). The five packages do not need to be at the same location, but all locations the caster is withdrawing from must be memlocked.;none;special*;instantaneous;1 + 1/F objects;recall package
Dimensions;12;Planar Wave;1 round;The caster calls forth a shockwave of planar energy, forcing all creatures in the area to make a 5d6 vs PWR check. On a fail, the creature is teleported to a safe location 120’ away from the caster into a space touching air.;5d6 vs PWR negates;caster;instantaneous;20 + 5/F’ radius;send away
Dimensions;13;Suture;4 rounds;Due to the dangerous nature of dimensional tears, a mage must be able to close them. Suture allows a mage to close any portals (including Rifts) in the area permanently. Rifts have a PWR stat equal to the caster that created them. The area will be bounded by a mirage like effect asn the portals are stitched closed, leaving a shimmering scar in the air. Suture also makes the closed rift from “rend” check only able to be made once a month. One month after suture is cast is the first time the check may be made. No portals can be made in the area for the next 1 + 1/F minutes.;6d6 vs PWR negates;caster;permanent;40 + 10/F’ radius;close rifts and portals
Dimensions;14;Magic Door;4 rounds;This spell opens a door to any memlocked location, visible only to the caster and those they touch during the casting time. The caster must be touching air, and air must be available at the destination for the spell to work. The location can be any distance away but must be on the same plane. ;none;multitouch;12 + 3/F hours;touched targets;open door to memlock
Dimensions;14;Vanish;4 rounds;The caster and the target must be touching air for this spell to work. If the target fails the resistance check, they are immediately dispatched to a small, life-supporting pocket dimension for the duration of the spell (the pocket dimension is  populated with monotone fruit-bearing trees and shrubs and has a spring running through it). ;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;12 + 3/F hours;single creature;send to pocket dimension
Dimensions;15;Otherworld;4 rounds;The caster must cast this on still air in the area of effect. When the spell is cast, the caster concentrates on a dimension and the place within that dimension where the portal will lead, but doesn’t need to have this location memlocked. A visible portal opens, providing a corridor to the target location. Anyone can then step through this portal, and be there. The corridor cannot be opened onto the same dimension from which it is cast. With four finesses, this portal can be bound to an object (such as a key) allowing the portal to be moved. The destination will remain the same.;none;LOS 5’;permanent;10 + 5/F’ radius;open portal
Dimensions;16;Banish;4 rounds;Banish is the same as Vanish, except the resistance check is more difficult and the duration is permanent unless Revoked. The pocket dimension of this spell is slightly larger, but contains the same plants and spring as Vanish.;5d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;permanent;single creature;send creature
Dimensions;16;Dimensional Well;4 rounds;Using this spell, the caster creates a jagged rift to the Planar Sea (see sidebar below) on the ground, which begins sucking in any loose objects in the radius. Any creatures standing in the area when the spell is cast must make a 4d6 vs PWR to avoid being pulled into the portal. Any creature that ends its turn in the area must attempt the check or be pulled in, and this check is repeated each round. After the spell ends the portal closes, not to be opened again.;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;trap in Planar Sea
