Common Magics;1;Lamp;1 round;Causes any non-living object to shed light equivalent to a normal torch.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;one item;illuminate
Common Magics;2;Change Temperature;1 round;Allows the caster to set and maintain any desired air temperature from 0 to 100 degrees Fahrenheit within an enclosed and moderately well insulated space without need for normal heating or cooling devices.;none;touch;6 + 2/F hours;15 + 5/F’ radius;set and maintain temp
Common Magics;3;Renew Object;1 round;Enables the mage to restore one item to its new/clean appearance. Clothing, dishes, books, etc. are likely targets. ;none;touch;instantaneous;30 + 15/F lb. item;restore appearance
Common Magics;4;Glue;1 round;This spell allows the caster to glue two surfaces of any two items together. The items cannot be separated by any physical means while this spell is in effect. Normally it lasts 4 minutes. One finesse allows it to last for one hour, two for one day, three for one week and four for one month.;none;touch;special;two items;glue together
Common Magics;5;Mending;4 rounds;Mending allows the caster to restore any broken item to its original condition if the caster has handled the object before it was broken and all the original pieces are at hand.;none;touch;instantaneous;50 lb. object;fix it
Common Magics;6;Fetch;1 round;Fetch causes any free standing item in the caster’s line of sight to be immediately brought to them. ;none;LOS 200 + 50/F’;instantaneous;20 + 5/F lb. item;fetch item
Common Magics;7;Find;1 hour;The caster concentrates on a particular material and casts this spell. If the material is within the area of the spell, an image of the material will appear in the general direction of its location. This spell locates the material to the nearest met and is fairly useless at close range. The caster cannot use this spell to locate a particular object. ;none;caster;instantaneous;300 + 150/F mets;locate material
Common Magics;7;Lesser Heal;2 rounds;All within the area that are willing or fail the resistance check are healed 1d6 DP. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 10 + 5/F’;instantaneous;10 + 5/F’ radius;heals all in area
Common Magics;8;Weapon Charm;1 round;Weapon Charm causes any weapon to be charmed for +1 + 1/2F. Multiple castings of this spell on a single target will stack with each other and permanent charms, up to +6.;none;touch;30 + 10/F’ minutes;one weapon;enchant weapon
Common Magics;9;Reassemble;1 round;Reassemble allows the caster to restore any broken item to its original condition. The caster must have the majority of the original pieces, but need not know the object’s original shape. In order for this to function, the caster must have over 50% of the original object and the spell will use other materials to fill in the pieces that are not available. The caster will need the materials that need to be replaced either from purchasing them or finding them. ;none;touch;instantaneous;100 lb. item;make whole again
Common Magics;10;Know Element;1 minute;Know Element enables the mage to discover the elemental makeup (earth, fire, air, water) of any object. Unfinessed, the spell reveals the dominant element only; fully finessed, it reveals all elements used in the object’s makeup and manufacture.;none;touch;instantaneous;10’ radius object;learn elemental makeup
Common Magics;10;Heal;2 rounds;All within the area that are willing or fail the resistance check are healed 2d6 DP. ;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 10 + 5/F’;instantaneous;10 + 5/F’ radius;heals all in area
Common Magics;11;Armor Charm;1 round;Armor Charm causes any armor to be charmed for +1 + 1/2F. Multiple castings of this spell on a single target will stack with each other and permanent charms, up to +6.;none;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;one piece of armor;enchant armor
Common Magics;12;Fasten;1 round;With Fasten, the caster can fasten or unfasten 1 + 1/F ropes, buckles, buttons, latches, etc. at a distance. By finessing, up to five fastenings can be worked in the area of effect. As a rule of thumb, most shields have two fastenings, and most armors have five.;none;20 + 5/F’;instantaneous;10 + 2/F’ radius;work fastenings
Common Magics;13;Shelter;1 hour;The caster visualizes a structure within the given size limits as they begin to cast this spell. The magic then takes any needed trees, earth, clay, etc. within 120’ of the target and processes them into building supplies, and are used to construct a building as near to the visualization as the raw materials allow.;none;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;50 + 10/F’ radius;create building
Common Magics;14;Servants;1 hour;The mage can automate certain aspects of their surroundings by creating invisible servants to handle such mundane chores as cooking, cleaning, laundering, trash removal, etc. Each servant has a single specific task. The servants must stay within the spell’s area of effect. ;none;10’;1 week;200 + 100/F’ radius;1 + 1/F’ servants
Common Magics;15;Know Magic;1 hour;Know Magic enables the mage to discover which spells were used to create a magical item. Up to six spells from the caster’s background can be discovered. Spells outside the caster’s background will not be revealed unless the mage first casts Know Element to discover their presence. ;none;touch;instantaneous;1 magical object;know 2 + 1/F spells
Common Magics;15;Greater Heal;1 round;All within the area that are willing or fail the resistance check are healed 6d6 DP. ;6d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 100 + 20/F’;instantaneous;100 + 20/F’ radius;heals all in area
Common Magics;16;Sunder;1 round;Sunder enables the caster to break any non-magical item, regardless of its composition.;none;touch;instantaneous;1000 lb. item;break object
Movement;1;Tireless Walking;1 round;Tireless Walking uses elemental power to increase the endurance of the target’s body while walking, i.e., moving at half movement rate. While this spell is in effect, the target will not tire or weaken.;none;touch;12 + 3/F hours;single creature;walk without fatigue
Movement;2;Cushion;1 round;While under the protection of Cushion, the target may fall from any height and suffer no impact damage. The speed of descent is unaffected by this spell; the impact occurs as if the laws of momentum have been temporarily suspended.;none;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single creature;non-damaging fall
Movement;3;Stickum;1 round;Stickum enables the target to climb vertical surfaces, or hang from horizontal surfaces, with the surefootedness of a fly or spider. While sticking to a surface the caster can move at up to one quarter their normal land movement rate. ;none;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single creature;climbing aid
Movement;4;Catspaw;1 round;Catspaw empowers the target to move across potentially noisy areas (dry leaves, loose gravel, etc.) without a sound. Note that this spell will not silence speech, rustling clothing, etc.;none;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single creature;silent movement
Movement;5;Quicken;1 round;Quicken allows the caster to increase the target’s movement by 10’ per round and allows one additional simple attack each round. Additional attacks only deal the attack's core damage.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;increase speed
Movement;6;Leap;1 round;Leap multiplies the force of the caster’s legs to propel them in a jump. The total length of the leap is up to 40’ + 10’/F, and may be any combination of vertical and horizontal distance that does not exceed the total. The caster takes no damage when landing.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;40 + 10/F’ jump
Movement;7;Tireless Running;1 round;Tireless Running allows the target to run (move at full movement rate) for the duration of the spell without fatigue.;none;touch;12 + 3/F hours;single creature;run without fatigue
Movement;8;Slow;2 rounds;Slow reduces the movement and attack rates of all within the area of effect by 1/2.;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;slow beings
Movement;9;Grasshopper;2 rounds;Grasshopper allows the caster to empower up to five touched beings to perform one jump (as in Leap) each round of the duration.;4d6 vs WIL negates;multitouch;4 + 2/F rounds;1 + 1/F beings;leap 40 + 10/F’
Movement;10;Speed;2 rounds;Speed increases the targets’ movement by 20’ per round and allows them two additional simple attacks per round for the duration of the spell. Additional attacks only deal the attack's core damage.;4d6 vs WIL negates;multitouch;1 + 1/F minutes;2 + 1/2F creatures;speed movement
Movement;11;Mire;2 rounds;Mire reduces the movement and attack rates of all within the area of effect to 1/3.;4d6 vs PWR negates;20 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;slow beings
Movement;12;Puppet;1 round;Puppet allows the caster to place all creatures in the area of the effect in a trance-like state. They then cast a movement spell rank 7 or below on themself. All those under the effects of Puppet may now move as the caster moves.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;special;10 + 5/F’ radius;endow with movement
Movement;13;Hasten;2 rounds;Hasten increases the targets’ movement by 30’ per round and allows them an additional four simple attacks per round for the duration of the spell. Additional attacks only deal the attack's core damage.;4d6 vs WIL negates;multitouch;1 + 1/F minutes;2 + 1/2F creatures;speed enhancement
Movement;14;Lightfoot;2 rounds;The target of Lightfoot is momentarily endowed with the ability to run at a movement rate of 500’ per round. This is equal to 225 mets per hour (approximately 85 miles per hour).;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;unnatural speed
Movement;15;Snatch;1 round;Snatch allows the target to grab any moving object and move with it. The object must have enough momentum to lift the target, else nothing happens (GM discretion). The target is also protected from any damage that might normally occur. Thus, an adventurer can snatch hold of a boulder flung by a siege machine, fly over a wall, and land unharmed.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;special;single creature;grab moving objects
Movement;16;Emulate;1 round;Emulate allows the caster to assume the movement ability of any creature they can see. Land, swim and fly movement rates of the creature are granted to the caster. The mage must still take precautions if movement is planned in a hostile environment (under water, through fire, etc.).;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;self;emulate movement
Tongues and Scripts;1;Lexesoterica;1 round;With this spell a target is enabled to read any script written in the special cipher of elemental mages. Scrolls and other written material prepared with the Cipher spell need this spell to be understood or used. A code or key phrase may need to be spoken while casting this spell if the Cipher was prepared in conjunction with the Encrypt spell.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single being;decipher magic text
Tongues and Scripts;2;Message;1 round;The caster can communicate with another person or creature within their line of sight by casting the spell, then whispering the message. Total privacy is not assured, as the whispered speech can be heard emanating from the target’s ear.;none;LOS 500 + 250/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;long rage speech
Tongues and Scripts;2;Project;1 round;The caster magically projects their voice to all beings in the radius. They can hear the caster normally as if they were standing next to them. The caster cannot turn this ability on and off while the spell is up. When fully finessed, the caster can weaponize this ability and scream as an action, dealing 4d6 pain damage to all in the area of effect. Creatures that succeed the resistance check do not take any damage. Doing so ends the spell.;4d6 vs PER negates*;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;200 + 50/F’ radius;project voice
Tongues and Scripts;3;Cipher;1 round;The magician uses Cipher when they wish to write something in the elemental cipher. These ciphers can only be understood with the use of the Lexesoterica spell. When fully finessed, the caster can assign a password or short phrase that must be used as well in order to read the encrypted text. If a mage does not know the passcode they can attempt to override the Cipher’s defenses by making a 4d6 vs PWR when they cast Lexesoterica. If they are successful they can read the text and the original caster of this spell is alerted of this action.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;self;magical writing
Tongues and Scripts;4;Name Tongue;1 round;Name Tongue allows the mage to identify an unknown language or script. Script identification has no duration. For spoken languages, the speaker must remain within hearing of the caster for the duration of the spell.;none;LOS 5’ or caster;4 + 2/F rounds;one script or hearing;identify language
Tongues and Scripts;5;Listen;2 rounds;Listen allows the caster to manipulate sound and redirect it to themself. This will enable them to listen in on conversations and other sounds provided a medium for sound to travel through. This does not provide an understanding of its source other than what the caster can discern. If there are people within the zone, they can make a 4d6 vs PWR check to notice this eavesdropping. Fully finessed, the caster can perfectly visualize the area from the sounds alone, and even memlock the location based on sounds.;4d6 vs PWR*;LOS 200 + 50/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;20 + 5/F’ radius;eavesdrop
Tongues and Scripts;6;Quiet;1 round;Quiet creates an immobile area absolutely devoid of noise of any kind. It makes verbal communication impossible, and masks the natural noises of anyone or anything in the affected area. Those within the area may still cast spells by mouthing the focus words, even if they cannot be heard.;none;LOS 20 + 5/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;eliminate sound
Tongues and Scripts;7;Speed Read;2 minutes;With this magic the caster may read, with perfect comprehension, anything written in a language they already know. The basic rate is one page per minute; the hastened rate depends on the finesses applied.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;read 4 + 1/F times faster
Tongues and Scripts;8;Fluency;4 rounds;Fluency enables the caster to understand any spoken or written communication. They can also speak in this tongue if it is humanly possible. This encompasses all languages and even animal grunts and squeaks if such could be considered normal communication for the animals involved. Fully finessed, this spell also allows the caster to accurately record, and later recall or write down, any normal speech within hearing.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;self;understand
Tongues and Scripts;9;Alter;1 minute;The caster casts this on an item with writing. If the item is magical, it must make a 4d6 vs PWR to negate this effect. The caster can alter the text and change it as they see fit, although the handwriting remains the same as the original document. The caster must be able to see the text they are altering for this spell to work, and must be able to read and write the language it is written in.;none;touch;1 + 1/F days;one item with writing;change meaning
Tongues and Scripts;10;Lockjaw;1 round;Lockjaw is used to prevent an individual from speaking or communicating. Thus orders can be disrupted and spell casting prevented unless using Silent Cast (CS). With 2 finesses the use of hands/limbs for gesturing, communicating, or spell casting is prevented as well. Fully finessed this spell makes giving or understanding orders impossible. ;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single being;prevent speech
Tongues and Scripts;11;Interpolate;2 minutes;Interpolate supplies five words for each illegible word written on any surface, one of which is correct. Each finesse reduces the number of suggestions by one. If Interpolate is combined with Fluency, the writing can be in any language. Combined with Lexesoterica, Interpolate can be used to complete fragmented magical text.;special;touch;instantaneous;one item with writing;special
Tongues and Scripts;12;Silver Tongue;1 round;The caster laces their voice and words with magic to make them more convincing. Any Acting skill checks made involving the usage of voice or words are made with 2 dice off. This can include Acting: Deception, Acting: Persuasion, or Acting: Performance checks, and may even extend to Acting: Instrumental Music (Singing) checks if the GM deems appropriate.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;very persuasive
Tongues and Scripts;13;Babble;1 round;If the unfortunate target of this casting fails the resistance check, any attempt to speak or form coherent communication is sabotaged. Their voice comes out as gibberish, their writing as meaningless scrawls. Attempts to use hand signals turn into a hilarious stomping and waving gesture. Any attempt to cast magical spells fails, even with Silent Cast (CS).;5d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 40 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single being;confuse speech
Tongues and Scripts;14;Need;1 round;The caster may designate one willing person or creature to be the recipient of this spell. The caster casts the spell upon the target to attune the target to the magic. Thereafter, any time the caster casts Need and names the recipient, the caster’s desire is immediately communicated to the target, which must make every effort to comply.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single creature;communicate need
Tongues and Scripts;15;Translator;4 rounds;Translator is an enhanced Fluency spell, allowing those the caster can touch within the casting time to also understand otherwise incomprehensible speech or writing. This spell also allows the caster to accurately record, and later recall or write down, any normal speech within hearing.;6d6 vs WIL negates;multitouch;2 + 1/F hours;touched beings;understand
Tongues and Scripts;16;Mindspeak;4 minutes;Mindspeak allows the caster to open two-way mental communications with anyone they have memorized, regardless of where they are, for the duration of the spell.;4d6 vs WIL negates;memlocked creature;30 + 10/F minutes;single creature;voiceless speech
Shadow Magics;1;Shadow Spawn;1 round;Shadow Spawn enables the caster to make pockets of shadow in the area of effect, as if the natural lighting direction had shifted to the caster’s desire. ;none;LOS 40 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 3/F’ radius;make shadows
Shadow Magics;1;Dark Mist;1 round;The caster creates a shadowy mist that obscure even in light conditions. In existing shadows, it is nearly invisible (3d6 vs PER to see it). People in the mist must make a 2d6 vs PER to be able to see through it, so those that fail take a blind fighting debuff. The mist is affected by wind. Any alternative to normal vision such as heat vision or Hear Light will allow the user to see through the mist. ;2d6 vs PER negates*;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;5 + 2/F’ cube;obscure
Shadow Magics;2;Shadow Carry;1 round;Shadow Carry enables the caster’s natural shadow to carry any items the caster could normally carry. These items are visible while being carried. ;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;caster;give shadow strength
Shadow Magics;3;Contrast;1 round;Contrast deepens the tone of any shadow, thus causing anything hidden or concealed therein to stand out sharply against a pure black background. ;none;LOS 40 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 3/F’ radius;reveal the hidden
Shadow Magics;4;Shadow Object;2 rounds;Shadow Object enables the caster to make a non-living, non-magical object from its shadow. The shadow must be motionless, and the caster must touch it to call the object’s form from its shadow. The created object is the size of the shadow. ;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;20’ radius shadow;create item
Shadow Magics;5;Shadow Servant;2 rounds;Shadow Servant creates a servant from the caster’s own shadow. The mage gives the shadowy butler a task, which it immediately carries out. This cycle can be repeated until the duration expires. The tasks must be those that the caster could actually perform and must not involve combat. The shadow servant has none of the magical abilities of the caster. If struck by a weapon, the shadow disperses. ;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;caster’s shadow;make a servant
Shadow Magics;5;Shadow Wall;1 round;The caster creates a solid wall of shadow that hinders light passing through it, however non-light based projectiles and people can freely pass through it. Any light-based projectiles or light-based energy get a -3 to damage. Targeting of LOS spells through the wall is hindered and requires a successful 2 dice check against Arcana.;none;LOS 5’;4 + 2/F rounds;10’ x 10’ x 3”;solid wall
Shadow Magics;6;Shadow Hide;1 round;Shadow Hide is an enhancement of Shadow Carry. Items given to the shadow are not visible while being carried. ;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;caster’s shadow;make a servant
Shadow Magics;6;Inverse Darkness;1 round;The target of this spell has their vision inverted, allowing them to see shadows as light and light as shadow. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;inverse light
Shadow Magics;7;Shadow Horse;4 rounds;Shadow Horse calls forth an equine creature from any natural shadow. This can be a horse to be ridden, a mule for carrying heavy items, etc. The creature functions in all respects like its normal counterpart, except it does not need food or water.;none;touch;12 + 3/F hours;caster;create equine
Shadow Magics;7;Shadowmeld;2 rounds;The caster melds into existing shadows, and becomes practically  invisible, enemies can make a 4d6 vs PER each round to see you. The caster may move and/or cast a spell, but this reduces the PER check by 2 dice. Stealth: Move Silently, Stealth: Shadows or other specializations may be used in conjunction with this spell, but the checks are not cumulative.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;self;shadowmeld
Shadow Magics;8;Light Bane;1 round;Light Bane causes any non-magical illumination device to go dark (though its fuel is still consumed) in the area of effect. Magical illumination devices make the 4d6 vs PWR check or go dark.;4d6 vs PWR negates*;20 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;20 + 10/F’ radius;banish illumination
Shadow Magics;9;Shadow See;2 rounds;Shadow See enables the mage to see with their shadow. The caster can see whatever is in the line of sight of the head of their shadow, and target spells through this LOS. Multishadow can be used in conjunction with this spell. ;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;caster’s shadow;see through shadow
Shadow Magics;9;Shadow Cast;1 round;After casting this spell, the caster may use their shadow to cast the next spell they wish to use. A 3d6 vs PER will allow any enemies to notice the oddly moving shadow, if the caster’s shadow is surrounded in shadows, the check is 5d6 vs PER, as the shadow blends in with the environment. ;none;caster;10 minutes (or until used);caster’s shadow;invisible casting
Shadow Magics;10;Multishadow;1 round;Multishadow enables the caster to create up to six (when fully finessed) duplicates of their own shadow, as if more than one directional light source were striking them from different directions. This spell is most useful in conjunction with other shadow spells. ;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;caster’s shadow;2 + 1/F shadows
Shadow Magics;12;Shadow Mount;4 rounds;Shadow Mount allows the mage to create any type of creature for use as a mount by throwing its shadow on a surface and calling the creature forth. The shadow can be created with hand gestures, paper cutouts, etc. The created creature has the standard physical abilities of the copied creature, but will not engage in combat. ;none;LOS 10’;12 + 3/F hours;one shadow;create mount
Shadow Magics;13;Shadow Life;2 rounds;Shadow Life endows the caster’s shadow with independent action. The shadow takes on the physical attributes (STR, AGI, HEA, COM) of the caster and has 10 in other attributes, and for the duration of the spell, can do any physical actions the caster could, including simple attacks in combat, but not spell casting or skill checks. The shadow must remain within the caster’s line of sight for the duration, or else the spell is canceled.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;caster’s shadow;vivify shadow
Shadow Magics;14;Shadow Target;1 round;Shadow Target grants the caster an ability to affect creatures and objects with spell effects or attacks by targeting their shadows.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;target shadow
Shadow Magics;15;Shadow Guardian;1 minute;The mage first makes the shadow of a creature on a surface, through hand manipulation, a paper cutout, etc. The caster then states (in 25 words or less) the condition that will trigger the spell. When triggered, the Shadow Guardian steps out of its shadow and attacks with the normal physical (not magical) abilities of the creature it mimics. The shadow disperses after it or the intruder is slain.;none;LOS 10’;special;one shadow;create a guardian
Shadow Magics;16;Shadow ‘Port;1 round;By standing on a shadow and casting Shadow ‘Port, the mage travels instantly to the exterior or interior of the shadow’s source. The caster may choose where to appear in relation to the source, though they must know the layout of interior destinations to be completely successful. If they don’t, they must roll 4d6 vs AGI to avoid a stumbling re-entry and loss of initiative for 1d4 rounds. ;none;caster;instantaneous;self;go to source
Interdictions;1;Resist Magic;1 round;Once cast, activates the next time another spell or magic-based effect specifically targets the person protected by this spell. That target must attempt to resist that spell if possible, and any resist checks are made at one die less. If there is no resist check, then this spell activates to no effect.;3d6 vs PWR negates;touch;2 + 1/F minutes†;single creature;help resist spell
Interdictions;2;Identify Magic;1 round;Once cast, this spell activates the next time a spell is cast within the range. That spell’s name is immediately known to the touched target of this spell (this spell is activated by the touched target as well). No further information about the spell being cast is given to the user of this spell. If (due to simultaneous action) more than one spell is cast at once, the user of this spell chooses which spell they identify.;3d6 vs PWR negates;touch, LOS 60 + 15/F’;2 + 1/F minutes†;single creature;know cast spell
Interdictions;7;Lesser Rebound;1 round;Activate this spell upon a spell specifically targeting you within the range. Roll 6d6 Counterspell, rebound on success.;none;caster, LOS 60 + 15/F’;2 + 1/F minutes†;self;redirect minor spell
Runic Magic;1;Create Enchanted Ink;10 minutes;Ordinary ink cannot withstand being filled with elemental energy, and also cannot be used to draw on many types of surfaces and be easily erased. The caster uses this spell to modify ordinary ink’s properties. Ink enchanted this way can be used for runecrafting, will last for a long time, and stick to any surface.  One bottle will provide enough ink to  last the entire day.;none;touch;1 day;one bottle of ink;enchant ink
Runic Magic;2;Rune of Insurance;2 minutes;Weapon or Armor rune. Protected equipment cannot be damaged or destroyed while this rune is active. This includes results of critical hit, effects of other spells, etc. This rune activates when protected equipment would be damaged and then disappears.;none;touch;24 hours until used;one item;protect equipment
Runic Magic;3;Speedpaint;1 round;The caster uses this spell in combination with an attempt to draw another rune from this list. This allows the caster to finish drawing the rune in one round instead of normal drawing time. This spell itself costs no units but  the unit cost of targeted rune is doubled (total units spent on this are 2*(unit cost of targeted rune)).;none;caster;instantaneous;self;quick painting
Runic Magic;4;Rune of Protection;2 minutes;Armor rune. The user decreases incoming physical damage by 1 + 1/4F. When activated, this rune will last for 4 + 2/F rounds and then disappears.;none;touch;24 hours until used;one armor;damage reduction
Runic Magic;5;Rune of Precision;2 minutes;Weapon rune. The user adds 2 + 1/F to their attack roll. When activated, this rune will last for 4 + 2/F rounds and then disappears.;none;touch;24 hours until used;one weapon;increase protection
Runic Magic;6;Rune of Piercing Blows;2 minutes;Weapon rune. On the round this rune is activated, the targeted weapon ignores Physical DR. The rune then disappears.;none;touch;24 hours until used;one weapon;ignore damage reduction
Runic Magic;7;Rune of Restoration;2 minutes;Body rune. When activated by the user this rune will instantly heal 4d6 damage points and then disappear.;none;touch;24 hours until used;one creature;heal
Runic Magic;8;Rune of Elements;2 minutes;Weapon rune. When activated, rune will grant the weapon a 1d6 elemental damage (bonus) on each hit with type depending on the primary element of the caster (earth - earth, fire - fire, air - lightning, water - cold). When activated, this rune will last for 4 + 2/F rounds and then disappears.;none;touch;24 hours until used;one weapon;bonus damage
Runic Magic;9;Rune of Elemental Protection;2 minutes;Body rune. When activated this rune will grant the user one rank of Resist (Element type) with element type depending on the primary element of the caster (earth - earth, fire - fire, air - lightning, water - cold). When activated, this rune will last for 4 rounds and then disappears.;none;touch;24 hours until used;one creature;resistance
Runic Magic;10;Rune of Assistance;2 minutes;Body rune. Upon failing resistance or skill check, the user can activate this rune and modify the roll by 2. The rune then disappears.;none;touch;24 hours until used;one creature;adjust roll
Runic Magic;11;Rune of Elemental Revenge;2 minutes;Armor rune. When activated this rune will infuse armor with power of elements. When a user is hit in melee, the rune deals 2d6 points of elemental damage to the attacker with type of damage depending on the primary element of the caster (earth - earth, fire - fire, air - lightning, water - cold). Multiple sources of damage from the same target will trigger rune only once. When activated, this rune will last for 4 + 2/F rounds and then disappears.;none;touch;24 hours until used;one armor;revenge
Runic Magic;12;Rune of Rebound;2 minutes;Armor rune. When the user is hit by a melee weapon, they can choose to activate this rune. Instead of hitting the user, the attack will use the same “to hit'' roll against the enemy. If this roll would hit the enemy, it does the weapon’s base damage to them. This rebounded attack cannot result in a critical hit. The rune then disappears.;none;touch;24 hours until used;one armor;rebound attack
Scrolls;1;Papyrus;2 rounds;The caster summons magical paper to empower with elemental energy. This spell must be used to create more paper for each scroll spell they wish to cast in this group. They may also use two finesses to make this paper immune to fire or water damage, or four finesses to make scrolls immune to both.;none;touch;3 days (or until use);caster’s hand;create magical paper
Scrolls;2;Light Spirits;5 minutes;Upon activating this scroll, a floating light ball appears and follows the caster around for the duration. The light ball can move around in the area (which follows the caster) as the caster requests to shed light into dark areas.;none;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;self, 200’ radius;create light
Scrolls;3;Scroll of Copy;5 minutes;Upon activating this scroll, it will copy images or text from paper upon itself, if the paper is magical, it must make a 5d6 vs PWR to resist. This does not copy any magical aspects, and can only fit two pages worth of text onto a piece of Papyrus. Any text takes five minutes to copy. ;5d6 vs PWR negates;touch;5 minutes;up to two pages of text;copy paper
Scrolls;4;Map Scroll;5 minutes;Upon activating this scroll, it emits a horizontal magical blast that maps out details of the surrounding area. It maps solid objects, but cannot pass through walls or doors unless there is an arm-sized hole for the magic to pass through. Creatures will mark a ping on the scroll, but it does not update the movement seeing as it’s a single blast. If there are multiple layers to the area, multiple Map Scrolls will be required. This does no damage, but is very visible. Proper Survival: Navigation checks may need to be made to read the map. ;none;caster;instantaneous;250 + 125/F’ radius;create map
Scrolls;5;Scroll of Playback;special*;The caster focuses on this scroll for any amount of time, but for every additional ten minutes after the first, the caster must pay an additional five units. They then place this scroll in a location with a trigger condition set; when the trigger condition is met, the scroll will record everything that happens within a 10 + 5/F’ radius area. For every ten minutes the caster spent focusing the scroll the scroll can record 30 minutes. Caster then retrieves the scroll and can activate the scroll to replay the events up to 3+1/F times before the scroll breaks. ;none;touch;special*;10 + 5/F’ radius;record events
Scrolls;6;Scroll Copying;2 rounds;The caster may use this spell to copy another magical scroll from this group they have completed, to give them another copy of that scroll. Copies may not be copied and any scroll may only be copied once. ;none;touch;instantaneous;single scroll;copy scroll
Scrolls;7;Scroll of Healing;5 minutes;Upon activating this scroll, the target magically heals 3d6 DP, which will close any open wounds and fix basic injuries. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 10’;instantaneous;single creature;heal
Scrolls;8;Bound Scrolls;5 minutes;The caster takes two pieces of Papyrus and links them: when one is written on or erased, the text magically updates on the other, creating a means of written communication regardless of distance. This spell works across planes, unless blocked or prevented by other magical means.;none;touch;permanent;two Papyruses;create live chat
Scrolls;9;Seal;5 minutes;The caster sets a trigger condition upon making this scroll, and then places it to set the trap. Upon activation, the scroll creates a solid yellow barrier around the area and all within must make a 4d6 vs STR or fall prone. Creatures that try to leave the area must 4d6 vs WIL to be able to pass through the barrier. Creatures within are magically kept alive and will not starve. Once prone, checks to get back up are a contested STR, where the barrier rolls 6 dice.;special*;scroll;1 + 1/F days;5 + 5/F’ radius;seal creatures
Scrolls;10;Hide Magic;5 minutes;The caster creates a scroll that, when activated, absorbs all magical auras on the object or creature; the scroll itself also does not glow under magical detections, as it just feeds on the residual energy. A 3-die Arcana: Identify Elemental/Divine, in conjunction with the capacity to detect magic can be used to negate this.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;hide magical output
Scrolls;11;Summon Familiar;1 + 1/F hours;Caster envisions a creature (maximum rate 30) to summon and focuses energy into the scroll. That creature is magically summoned; if it fails the resist check, it is non-hostile for 1 + 1/F hour. During this time, the caster must make a deal to be able to summon the creature, or this spell fails. Creatures that pass the resist check act according to their nature. Creatures must be summoned in a proper space, i.e. whales can not be summoned on land, or within a confined space. If there is a willing creature present at time of casting, casting only takes 4 rounds and creates the bond with that creature. The created summoning scroll lasts indefinitely until used.;6d6 vs WIL negates;touch;until used;single creature;summon familiar
Scrolls;12;Spell Storage;1 minute;The caster prepares a piece of Papyrus with their power, then has another caster channel knowledge of an elemental spell into the scroll (rank up to the original caster’s PWR/2), allowing the user of the scroll to cast the spell out of their own unit pool for the duration of the scroll.;none;touch;6 + 2/F hours;single spell;store spell
Scrolls;13;Scroll Vernier;1 hour;The caster focuses some of their life energy into a scroll, and upon activating, it physically manifests itself and becomes a vernier. The Scroll Vernier can attach to any set of armor or clothes to allow them to activate scrolls as a fifth, only one scroll can be activated in a round. The Scroll Vernier weighs 15 lbs. and takes 2 rounds to put on or take off. The vernier can hold up 6+1/F scrolls. ;none;touch;permanent;single item;create scroll vernier
Scrolls;14;Summon Greater Familiar;special;This scroll functions identically to Summon Familiar, but without a rate cap. The creature must be willing and the scroll will last indefinitely until it is used. ;willing target;touch;permanent;single creature;summon familiar
Scrolls;15;Force Summon;1 hour;The caster uses this scroll to forcibly create a bond with a creature. They may then summon the creature via the Summon Familiar rules without a rate cap. The scroll will last indefinitely until it is used, and the creature will follow commands for 1 + 1/F days and can be un-summoned via standard spell dropping rules. ;6d6 vs WIL negates;touch;permanent;single creature;forced familiar
Scrolls;16;Greater Seal;15 minutes;This scroll functions identically to Seal, but the resist checks are 6d6 vs STR to remain  standing and 6d6 vs WIL to leave the area. Also, the barrier rolls 10 dice for the contested STR check to get up.;special*;location;1 + 1/F months;25 + 10/F’ radius;seal creatures
Arcane Blade;1;Convert Power;1 round;This spell allows the caster to convert some of their PWR into physical ability. For the duration of the spell, the caster adds 1 + 1/F to their STR, AGI, or HEA (chosen when the spell is cast) while losing the same amount of PWR. Only a single instance of this spell can be in effect on a target regardless of the attribute chosen. This effect cannot be used to raise attributes above 18. ;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;convert power
Arcane Blade;2;Physical Enhancement;1 round;The caster uses their magical energy to enhance their body. At a moment of casting, one of the following attributes are chosen: STR, HEA, or AGI. This spell activates the next time the caster would attempt a resistance check against the chosen attribute. Instead of making the check against the chosen attribute, the caster makes a resistance check of the same difficulty against their PWR. Only a single instance of this spell can be in effect on a target regardless of the attribute chosen.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;physical boost
Arcane Blade;3;Magic Strike;none;The caster uses this spell in combination with an attempt to strike an opponent. This attack adds 1d6 + 2/F points of energy damage (skill). ;none;caster;instantaneous;self;add energy damage
Arcane Blade;4;Self-Recovery;1 fifth;The caster channels their elemental energy to heal their wounds, restoring 3d6 damage points.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;heal
Arcane Blade;5;Piercing Blow;none;The caster uses this spell in combination with an attempt to strike an opponent. The attack is made against touch DVs of the target. This spell cannot be used in combination with other spells that require a hit to activate, such as Foolhardy.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;ignore armor
Arcane Blade;6;Power Infusion;1 round;The caster infuses their weapon with part of their power. For the duration, their PWR is lowered by 1 + 1/4F, but the bonus to hit and damage (bonus) on the weapon attack is increased by the same amount, stacking with Weapon Charm or permanent enchantments past their normal limits.;none;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single weapon;empower
Arcane Blade;7;Overdrive;1 round;The caster uses this spell to greatly increase their mobility. For the duration, the caster can move their full movement as a fifth. Once the duration ends, the caster is Dazed for the next round.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;self;increase mobility
Arcane Blade;8;Ergokinetic Claws;1 round;The caster channels elemental energy into their limb, which is then released in the form of claw-like protrusions. These claws deal 1d6 points of energy damage (core) per hit and are additionally enchanted by +1 + 1/2F. Attacks with Ergokinetic Claws ignore armor DVs and deal full damage to immaterial and ethereal creatures.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;energy protrusions
Arcane Blade;9;Restorative Loop;1 round;The caster creates an energy loop between themself and the weapon in their hand, rapidly moving energy between the two and utilizing it to their benefit. For the duration, the user heals DP equal to the main Weapon Charm or similar enchantment of the weapon every round (holding a +3 sword restores 3 DP per round). The enchantment must be part of the weapon and not the user’s body, thus this effect will not apply to Ergokinetic Claws or similar effects. ;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;self;combat restoration
Arcane Blade;10;Energy Deflection;1 reaction*;This spell can be used as a reaction to the caster being hit with magical damage while their weapon is drawn. The incoming energy is redirected into the weapon and is released with the caster's next attack, adding half of the absorbed damage to the attack (if multiple enemies are hit, divide damage equally between them) as energy damage. Only one source of damage can be absorbed. If energy is not used within the next round, it dissipates harmlessly. The use of this spell puts a huge toll on the caster and they lose one point of PWR for every use of this ability. Lost points are recovered at the rate of 1 point per day of rest.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;deflect energy
Arcane Blade;11;Phasing Blade;2 rounds;The caster channels energy into the weapon they are holding. The weapon partly shifts into a non-physical state dealing base energy damage instead of physical. Attacks with Phasing Blade ignore armor DVs and deal full damage to immaterial and ethereal creatures. This spell ends if the weapon is not in contact with the caster for more than a round.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single weapon;energy blade
Arcane Blade;12;Single Strike of Hell;1 round;The caster uses this spell in combination with an attempt to strike an opponent. The caster makes a simple attack against the enemy. If they hit, it is considered a critical hit. If they miss, they suffer a critical hit with base 1d12 of damage (damage type depends on caster’s weapon). For every 2 finesses, the caster adds +1 to critical hit roll, however the same bonus will be applied if the caster misses.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;force critical hit
Arcane Blade;13;Complete Restoration;2 rounds;Once cast, this spell completely restores the caster's body. Damage points are fully restored, any lost limbs and internal organs are regrown. However, healing from all other sources is halved until the caster’s next full rest period. ;none;caster;instantaneous;self;repair body
Arcane Blade;14;Energized Material;1 minute;The caster infuses a weapon that they are holding with their elemental energy, changing basic properties of the material. For the duration, their PWR is lowered by 4 + 1/2F, but the bonus to hit and damage (bonus) on the weapon attack is increased by the same amount, stacking with Weapon Charm or permanent enchantments past their normal limits.;none;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single weapon;empower
Arcane Blade;15;Power Exchange;1 hour;The caster gains the permanent ability to spend a round to convert some of their power into STR, HEA, or AGI. Caster adds up to 8 to the chosen attribute, but loses the same amount of PWR. Only one attribute can be altered at the same time.. This effect cannot be used to raise an attribute above 20. ;none;caster;permanent;self;convert PWR
Arcane Blade;16;Phoenix’s Spirit;1 day;Phoenix’s Spirit allows the caster’s body to be fully restored in the event of death. One minute after the caster dies, their body is wreathed in green, harmless flames. Over the next five minutes, the caster’s body is fully healed and brought back to life. The caster is unconscious for the next hour. This spell lasts indefinitely until used. Only one Phoenix’s Spirit can be active at any given time.;none;caster;special*;self;restore body
Arcane Blade;1–16;Revocation (Elemental);3 - 1/2F rounds*;The Revocation spell disrupts other magical effects. Roll (rank of Revocation)d6 Counterspell targeting one magical effect within range.;none;LOS 80 + 20/F’;instantaneous;1 magical effect;nullify elemental power
Arcane Blade;1–16;Defer;1 minute;The Defer spell delays the effects of another spell. You pick a single mundane item and cast the Defer spell on it. This places a magical field about the item that can hold another spell in rank equal to or less than the rank of the Defer spell used. Immediately after this, you cast another onto the same item. Finesses must be included at the moment of casting, but do not increase the required rank of Defer. The magical field created by the Defer ensnares this spell, holding it within the field.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;1 item, 1 spell;delay elemental spell effect
