Fire Magics;1;Flint and Steel;1 round;Flint and Steel enables the caster to snap their fingers and produce a flickering flame  in their hand. The flame can be held for 10 minutes, and sheds dim light in a 10’ radius. The caster can also throw the flame at targets, which ends the spell immediately. When this spell is cast, or as an action on a later turn, the flame can be hurled 60 + 15/F’ at a single creature, dealing 1d6 fire damage.;none;caster, LOS 60 + 15/F’;special*;self, single creature;produce flame
Fire Magics;2;Flaming Arrows;1 round;Once each round an arrow or bolt fired from the affected ranged weapon is set on fire. The projectile inflicts an additional 1d8 fire damage (bonus) on hit.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single weapon;turn projectile molten
Fire Magics;3;Flames of Retribution;1 reaction*;Flames of Retribution can be cast as a reaction whenever the caster takes damage from a creature they can see within 30 + 15/F’. The caster points their finger towards the target and launches magical flames towards them. The target must make a 3d6 vs AGI resist check to halve 3d6 fire damage.;3d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 30 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single creature;return fire
Fire Magics;4;Part Fire;1 round;Part Fire allows the caster to clear a narrow path to the targeted point through continuously burning natural or magical fires (magical fires make a 3d6 vs PWR check against 9). The path must be straight. This spell is of no use against flame attacks.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;4 + 1/F’ wide line;part fire
Fire Magics;4;Flame Weapon;1 fifth;This spell enables the caster to gather existing fire into any manual weapon (table found in Chapter 5: Equipment) and wield it without a STR requirement for the spell’s duration. The weapon does its base damage as fire damage and counts as magical for bypassing resistances. The weapon is enchanted to +1/F. The weapon can be handed to other creatures, but regains its normal STR requirement.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;single weapon;create fire weapon
Fire Magics;5;Immolate;1 round;Immolate envelops the target’s form in magical, harmless flames. The target gains 1 + 1/2F ranks of Resist Fire. They are also more difficult to see through the flames, increasing all of their magic defense values by 2.;willing target;LOS 30 + 10/F’ ;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;flaming form
Fire Magics;5;Ignite;1 round;The caster gathers energy in a small bead of flames and launches it at the target, setting them alight with magical fire, causing them to take 3d6 points of fire damage each round for the duration of the spell. The target can spend one action to put out the flames, ending the spell immediately.;4d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;ignite target
Fire Magics;6;Quench;1 round;Quench snuffs out fires of the size indicated by the area of effect. Magical fires must make a 3d6 vs PWR check against 9 to negate this effect. This spell has no effect on sudden fire attacks.;none ;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;20 + 5/F’ radius;extinguish flames
Fire Magics;7;Flame Stride;1 round;The caster channels flame and fire to increase their movement rate by 10 + 5/F feet per round. Additionally, when they move within 5 feet of a creature, that creature takes 1d6 fire damage from the wake of flames they leave. Any creature can take this damage only once during a turn.;none;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;walk with flames
Fire Magics;8;Fireball;1 round;Fireball allows the caster to draw a bit of elemental fire from the surrounding environment and direct it to explode in a designated area. All creatures failing their resistance check take 8d6 fire damage. Dry, combustible materials can be easily set aflame with this spell. ;4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;40 + 5/F’ radius;explosive flames
Fire Magics;8;Fire ‘Port;1 round;The caster teleports themself to an unoccupied space within the range. Immediately after they disappear, an explosion of flames erupts from the space they just left, and all creatures in a 10 + 5/F’ radius around that space must make a 4d6 vs HEA check to resist 6d6 fire damage. The caster can bring along objects and equipment they are carrying. They can also teleport one willing creature they can touch when this spell is cast. There must be space at the destination location for the creature, otherwise the creature is left behind.;4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;special*;flaming teleport
Fire Magics;9;Fajro’kiraso;1 round;Thin and wispy flames wreathe the target’s body for the duration, shedding light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet.The flames provide you with protection against both fire and cold. The target gains 1 + 1/2F ranks of Resist Fire and 1 + 1/2F ranks of Resist Cold.In addition, whenever a creature within 5 feet hits the target with a combat attack, they can use a reaction to cause the Fajro’kiraso to erupt with flame, dealing 2d6 fire damage to the attacker.;willing target;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;armor of flames
Fire Magics;10;Firebreath;1 round;Firebreath grants the caster Breath Weapon (fire) creature ability with a Potency of 8 for the duration. They may use it once a round, including the casting round, without expending a charge. If they already possess Breath Weapon (fire) their ranks of Potency are increased by 4 to a minimum of 8 and a maximum of 12 and they may use it without expending a charge.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;self;breathe flames
Fire Magics;10;Flame of Reversal;1 round;If the target of this spell fails the resistance check, a phantasmal crown of fire appears above their head. For the duration, any healing effects that occur to the target deal fire/heat damage instead.;5d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;reverse healing
Fire Magics;11;Flame Barrier;2 rounds;The caster creates a wall of fire, which consists of a set of 4 + 1/F panels that are 5’ x 5’ x 4” which can be arranged as the caster desires, as long as each panel is contiguous with another panel. If the wall cuts through a creature’s space when it appears, the creature is pushed to one side of the wall (caster’s choice). The flames can be extinguished by normal or magical rain in 5 rounds.  Creatures attempting to cross the flames take 4d6 fire damage each round for as long as the crossing takes.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;special*;wall of flames
Fire Magics;11;Firestorm;1 round;The caster draws upon the molten mantle of the planet and summons a ring of fire to circle them. Anyone in the area when the spell is cast, or if they end their turn within the area, must make the resist check or take 4d6 points of fire/heat damage per round. For each two finesses, the caster can exclude a single creature from the damage.;5d6 vs AGI halves;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;5 + 5/F’ radius;ring of fire
Fire Magics;12;The Melting;4 rounds;The target is this spell is heated to extreme temperatures over the course of the casting time. If it fails a resistance check of 5d6 against its fire resistance, it melts and is destroyed. If the resistance check succeeds, it remains at the temperature for the duration but is not destroyed. The item will feel very hot, but will do no additional damage.;5d6 vs fire resist;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 minute;single object;melt item
Fire Magics;13;Conflagration;1 round;Conflagration is an enhanced version of Flame Barrier, which creates 6 + 1/F panels, which do 6d6 fire damage per crossing. In addition, this wall cannot be extinguished by non-magical water or rain, although water spells of higher rank can.;none;LOS 100’;1 + 1/F minutes;special*;wall of hellfire
Fire Magics;14;Comet;2 rounds;Comet draws upon the raw energy of the elemental plane of fire to destroy the caster’s enemies. One the first round of casting, the caster conjures a molten sphere of elemental fire directly in front of them. They then direct it to explode at a specific point. Creatures within 20 feet of the explosion take 14d6 fire damage, those within 60 feet take half, and those within 100 take quarter damage. A successful resistance check halves the damage that the target would take according to their position.;5d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 200 + 50/F’;instantaneous;special*;full force of fire
Fire Magics;15;Fajrovoki;4 rounds;Fajrovoki summons 4 + 2/F fire elementals from any flame source (a candle is sufficient) within the target area.Refer to Appendix C: Spell Clarification for creature write ups and control mechanics.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;special*;summon fire elementals
Fire Magics;16;Spirit Fire;special*;Spirit Fire allows the caster to replicate any fire spell from this group that has an area of effect. The range, duration, area, resistance check and effect are the same as the duplicated spell, except for the additional EXP cost from this spell. A Spirit Fire version of the spell burns with a white flame which is harmless to creatures the caster states are friends. Only living creatures can be damaged; combustible materials cannot be ignited with this spell, even if the effect it is replicating is capable of such. ;special*;special*;special*;special*;selective damage
Illumination;1;Magic Torch;1 round;Magic Torch causes an object to shed light equivalent to a normal torch: 20 feet of light, with an additional 20 feet of dim lighting. ;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;1 + 1/2F objects;make item glow
Illumination;2;Moonlight;1 round;This spell causes moonlight to fill a sphere of the target area. The area counts as dim lighting for the duration. Any Invisible creatures in the area must make the resist check to remain Invisible, or are outlined in pale moonlight while they remain in the area.;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;20 + 5/F’ radius;create moonlight
Illumination;3;Light Shield;1 round;Light Shield enables the caster to bend existing light in their surroundings into a circular shield, which floats in front of the caster. This spell must be cast while the caster is in light, and dim lighting is not enough to create a shield. The light is bent into a buckler (magic DVs of 1/0/0). If finessed twice, the light effectively creates an iron shield (magic DVs of 3/3/1). If fully finessed, the shield additionally subtracts 2 points from any damage the caster takes.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;bend light into shield
Illumination;4;Magic Lantern;1 round;The caster can cause the touched object(s) to glow as if it were a hooded lantern. The caster can mentally control the luminosity of the glow as a free action. At its brightest setting, the object sheds light for 30 feet, with an additional 30 feet of dim lighting. The caster can dim both radii by 5 feet, and even snuff out the light.;none;touch;2 + 1/F hours;1 + 1/2F objects;create lantern
Illumination;5;Light Weapon;1 round;This spell enables the caster to gather existing light into the shape of any manual weapon for the spell’s duration. This spell must be cast while the caster is in light, and dim lighting is not enough to create the weapon. The weapon deals damage appropriate for its type and is enchanted with a +1 + 1/2F weapon charm. This spell can be active multiple times, once per hand. ;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;caster’s hand;create enchanted whip
Illumination;6;Limn;1 round;Limn is only useful when cast in a dim or dark area. It causes tendrils of light to flash from the caster’s fingertips into the described area. Each object within the area is outlined in a dim light (color of the caster’s choice). Any creature in the area must make the resist check or also be outlined in the light. For the duration, affected objects and creatures shed 5’ of dim light. This may provide easier targeting for ranged attacks and spellcasting and affected creatures cannot benefit from being Invisible.;4d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;outline with light
Illumination;7;Alarm;1 minute;Alarm is useful to protect a room, building, campsite, etc. 2 + 1/F entrances are spanned by a faint beam of light which, when broken, emits a shrill alarm that will wake up all creatures within 100’ of the broken beam. Each beam can extend up to 20 feet, if necessary. When fully finessed, beams move through the area in the unpredictable manner, requiring 4d6 check against Acrobatics to move through it unnoticed.;4d6 vs PER notice*;LOS 100’;12 + 3/F hours;special*;alarm entrances
Illumination;8;Light Wall;1 round;Light Wall creates a 10’ x 10’ wall of light that completely blocks line-of-sight and will also absorb any light that attempts to pass through it, such as lasers or light based spells. The caster can finesse the spell to increase either dimension by 5’. Creatures, objects, and non-light energy can pass freely through the wall. The wall can be any color of the caster’s choosing. ;none;LOS 20 + 5/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;10’ x 10’ + 5/F’;create wall of light
Illumination;9;Rainbow Bridge;4 rounds;Rainbow Bridge enables the magician to create a bridge of light 20’ wide by 120 + 30/F’ long. As many creatures the caster can touch during the casting time may use the bridge as if it were solid. The bridge is immaterial for all others.;4d6 vs PWR negates;multitouch;30 + 10/F minutes;120 + 30/F’ ;create bridge
Illumination;10;Dazzle;1 round;Dazzle causes a ball of light to appear in the caster’s hand and may be hurled up to40 + 10/F’ away. The ball explodes at the target point, producing a shower of brilliant light fragments that temporarily blind any creature in the area of effect for the spell’s duration. Creatures that don’t rely on vision automatically succeed the resistance check.;4d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 40 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;Blind targets
Illumination;11;Reflective Armor;1 round;Reflective armor surrounds the caster with a mirror barrier layer that bends light and reflects all damaging light based effects back at attackers. The light can be natural or conjured and deals the same amount of damage to the original caster of the damaging spell or attacker hitting the caster with light based weaponry. Appropriate rolls to hit and resistance checks apply.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;self;reflect light
Illumination;12;Mirror Wall;4 rounds;Mirror Wall turns any flat surface into a one-way mirror for the duration of the spell. The caster chooses which side of the wall allows light to pass through, and which side reflects light. Anyone on the backside of the wall can see through it normally, but those on the other side see a mirrored surface. A creature that investigates the wall can see through the reflective side with a 5d6 vs PER resist check.;5d6 vs PER negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;special*;create one-way mirror
Illumination;13;Sun Call;2 rounds;Sun Call empowers the magician to bring the brilliance of the noon sun to the area. This counts as full lighting, as well as sunlight. ;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;60 + 15/F’ radius;magical daylight
Illumination;14;Reflective Travel;2 rounds;Reflective Travel enables the caster to pass through an existing mirror, slipping slightly outside their plane of existence. The caster walks around a mirrored version of reality, and is only visible in mirrors and reflective surfaces. They can cast spells and make attacks on the reflections of creatures, and can be targeted by spells that target their reflections (Arcana checks may apply). The caster must step back through a mirror to return to their plane of existence within the duration or be trapped in the reflection plane (if trapped, this spell can be cast again to permit travel through mirrors again).;none ;caster;2 + 1/F hours;single mirror;travel in reflection
Illumination;15;Ruby Death;1 round;Ruby Death enables the caster to fire a red ray of concentrated light energy from their finger. If the target fails the resistance check, it takes 15d6 points of fire/heat damage. Successful resistance check allows the target to partially dodge the beam taking half the original damage.;6d6 vs AGI halved;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;single target;beam of deadly light
Illumination;16;Beamrider;4 rounds;Beamrider enables the caster to travel to the source of any light within their line of sight, up to 300 miles, in the blink of an eye.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;travel to light source
Heat Magics;1;Detect Heat;1 round;The caster can detect anything within the spell’s area that is hotter than 150 °F. The caster simply knows the location of all hot objects.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;120 + 30/F’;detect hot things
Heat Magics;2;Careful, That’s Hot;1 round;The target object is heated up to approximately 200 °F, no flame is produced. The temperature then dissipates just as quickly. Anyone touching the item must succeed a 3d6 vs WIL or instinctively drop the object. On a success, they may choose to continue holding the item, but will take 1d6 heat damage. Magical objects must make a 3d6 vs PWR to negate this effect.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;object ≤ 5 + 5/F lbs.;heat up
Heat Magics;3;Pre-Heat;1 round;If the target of this spell fails the resistance check, they gain a single rank of Susceptible to Fire for the spell's duration. ;4d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;make flammable
Heat Magics;3;Heat Weapon;1 round;Heat Weapon makes a single weapon heat up, causing it to glow red-hot. The wielder of the weapon takes 2d6 heat damage and must succeed on a 3d6 vs WIL check or instinctively drop the weapon (if capable). If it does not drop the weapon, or if it picks the weapon back up during the spell’s duration, they take 1d6 heat damage per round they hold the weapon, and suffer a -2 penalty to all attacks with the weapon.;3d6 vs WIL*;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single weapon;make very hot
Heat Magics;4;Heat Exhaustion;1 round;The caster channels heat from the elemental plane of fire towards the target, affecting it with symptoms of acute heat exhaustion. If the target fails the resist check, they are Dazed as they are overcome with nausea and dizziness. The target reattempts the resist check at the end of each of its rounds, ending the spell on a success.;4d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minute;single creature;expose to heat
Heat Magics;5;Arcane Scorch;1 round;Arcane Scorch forcibly burns the target’s magical units, causing them to magically scorch the target. The target loses 3 + 1/F magical units, and takes the same number of units lost in d6 of energy damage. If the target has multiple pools of units, determine which pool this spell burns from randomly. If this spell burns through all the units remaining in a pool, it does not carry over to other pools.;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single creature;burn spell units
Heat Magics;6;Thermal Sink;1 round;The caster touches an object and magically links it with the elemental plane of fire. The object then becomes a heat sink, which can absorb any excess heat and channel it to the elemental plane of fire. The object becomes cool to the touch, and is immune to any spells or effects that would heat it up. With 4 finesses, the caster can target a single creature with this spell.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;heat sink
Heat Magics;7;Heat Shield;1 reaction*;The caster creates a translucent, insulating shield around the target with a reaction when the target would take heat damage. The shield absorbs 10 + 5/F points of heat damage, and dissipates immediately after. If the heat damage would exceed the DP of the shield, the excess damage carries over to the target.;willing target;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;1 + 1/2F creatures;protect from heat
Heat Magics;8;Hut of Warmth;1 minute;Hut of Warmth creates a 10’ radius immobile dome. The spell ends early if the caster leaves the radius. Up to 6 creatures (of humanoid size) can fit inside the dome with the caster, and each finesse for area allows 2 more creatures. The atmosphere inside the dome is warm, dry, and comfortable, regardless of the weather outside. ;none;caster;6 + 2/F hours;10 + 5/F’ radius;warm resting area
Heat Magics;9;Heat Syncope;1 round;The caster channels torrential heat from the elemental plane of fire towards the target. If the target fails the resist check, they fall Unconscious as they are overcome with heat exhaustion. If the target succeeds, they do not fall Unconscious but are still affected by heat exhaustion, and are dizzy and sluggish. For the duration, the target is Delayed.;4d6 vs HEA partial*;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;cause fainting
Heat Magics;10;Fever;1 round;Fever induces a dangerously high fever in the target’s body. The target makes the resist check at the start of each of their turns. If the target fails, they take 2d6 heat damage and are Dazed for the turn. If they succeed, they take 1d6 heat damage and can act as normal.;5d6 vs HEA partial*;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;raise body temperature
Heat Magics;11;Overheat;1 round;Overheat channels power of the plane of fire to ignite magical energy inside those that enter the radius. Every creature possessing any type of units loses 2d6 units of their dominant pool and takes equal amounts of fire/heat damage. Any units lost this way count towards spending limits per round and might prevent affected creatures from casting higher rank spells. Effects that prevent unit drain would cancel this effect for the creature.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;20 + 5/F’ radius;dangerous casting
Heat Magics;12;Heat Frenzy;1 round;Heat Frenzy causes the target to be overcome with hot-blooded rage. The target makes the resist check at the start of each of their turns. If the target fails, they take 3d6 heat damage and become enraged, and must attack the closest creature to itself, be it friend or foe. If the target succeeds the resist check, they take 2d6 heat damage and can act as normal.;5d6 vs CSE*;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;Hot-blooded rage
Heat Magics;13;Heat Stroke;1 round;The caster channels lethal heat from the elemental plane of fire towards the target. If the target fails the resist check, they take 13d6 heat damage and fall Unconscious as they are overcome with heat exhaustion. If the target succeeds, they take half damage and do not fall Unconscious but are still affected by heat exhaustion, and are dizzy and sluggish. For the duration, the target is Delayed.;6d6 vs HEA*;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;kill with heat
Heat Magics;14;Mansion of Warmth;1 minute;The caster creates a portal to a mansion on the edge of the elemental plane of fire. This mansion is magically shaped and designed to the caster’s whims, and contains as many doors, rooms, beds, blankets, etc. as the caster desires. The atmosphere inside the dome is warm, dry, and comfortable. Due to the proximity to the elemental planes, all elemental mages regenerate twice the number of units when resting here. The caster can choose to make the portal invisible as a mental action, and can designate which creatures are allowed within the mansion when the spell is cast, or as a mental action.;none;caster;1 + 1/F days;special*;heated mansion
Heat Magics;15;Witchscorcher;2 rounds;Witchscorcher causes the target to lose 15d6 units from their pools, or half as much units (rounding down) on a successful resist check. Once one pool is depleted, the leftover unit drain moves to the next pool. The caster can choose which pools to drain first. The target then takes 2 points of heat damage for every unit burned by this spell.;6d6 vs PWR halves;LOS 20 + 5/F’;instantaneous;single target;burn all units
Heat Magics;16;Temperature Adaptation;1 minute;The caster attunes and magically tethers their body with the elemental plane of fire, using it as a thermal source or sink to enhance their own body’s homeostasis. During the duration of the spell, the caster can use an action to adapt their body to the temperature around them, allowing them to survive and negate the effects of hypo- or hyperthermia in any temperature between -60 °F and 200 °F.;none;caster;1 year;self;enhance homeostasis
Combustion;1;Detect Combustibles;1 round;The caster can detect flammable and combustible objects in the spell’s area. Flammable objects are outlined in orange, and combustible objects are outlined in red.;none;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;120 + 30/F’ radius;detect combustibles
Combustion;2;Spark Point;1 round;Spark Point allows the caster to make any non-magical flammable item (wood, paper, cloth, etc.) combustible. With two finesses, the caster can target non-magical, non-flammable objects as well. With four finesses, the caster can target magical items, which must make a 4d6 vs PWR to negate this effect. This spell is most useful as a preparatory step to other Combustion spells.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;20 + 5/F lb. object;makes object combustible
Combustion;3;Blast Shield;1 round;The caster creates a translucent, shimmering shield around their body. They gain 1 + 1/2F ranks of Resist Explosives, which functions like other resist abilities, but applies to resist checks and damage from explosions of grenades and combustible objects.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;self;resist explosions
Combustion;4;Abey Combustion;1 reaction*;This spell is cast on an explosion the caster can see within range. The caster creates a magical sphere of force that surrounds the explosion within a 1’ sphere, which will keep the explosion in stasis until this spell ends. Once the spell ends, the explosion occurs as normal.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/2F rounds;single explosion;delay explosion
Combustion;5;Grenade;1 round;Grenade allows the caster to launch a combustible object they can see within range, throwing it 30 + 10/F’ at a point they can see. As the object flies through the air, it ignites and explodes as it hits, dealing 4d6 fire/heat damage in a 5’ radius, with a 4d6 vs HEA to halve. If cast on an object with Modify Combustibility, the explosion is replaced by the new effect. A magical object must make a 3d6 vs PWR to negate this effect.;4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single combustible object;throw grenade
Combustion;6;Backfire;1 reaction*;The caster casts this spell when a linear weapon is fired within range. The caster causes the gunpowder in the weapon to backfire, and the wielder of the weapon takes the damage of the attack, as if they were hit with a simple attack from the weapon. Any skills used for the attack are nullified, and the attack counts as a miss for the purposes of multiattacking. A magical weapon must make a 4d6 vs PWR to negate this effect. Linear weapons that do not rely on gunpowder are unaffected.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single linear weapon;cause backfire
Combustion;7;Modify Combustibility;1 round*;This spell allows the caster to modify a combustible object to explode in a special way, as determined by the number of finesses. The explosion’s area is 10 + 5/F’ radius. All status effects last for 4 rounds, with a repeated resist check each round to end it early. A magical object must make a 4d6 vs PWR to negate this effect. 0: Flashbang, no damage but Blinded with a 4d6 vs PER to negate.1: Sonic, 2d6 pain damage and Deafened with a 4d6 HEA to negate.2: Chemical, 5d6 acid damage and Dazed with a 4d6 vs HEA to halve.3: Napalm, 6d6 fire damage and Burning with a 5d6 vs AGI to halve.4: Energy, 8d6 energy damage and Stunned with a 5d6 vs WIL to halve.This spell can be used in conjunction with Grenade for instantaneous effect.;special;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single combustible object;change explosive property
Combustion;8;Defuse;1 reaction*;Defuse allows the caster to prevent a combustible object they can see within range from exploding. This will affect grenades and spells from this group, making them ineffective. A magical explosive must make a 4d6 vs PWR to negate this effect.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single explosion;defuse explosive
Combustion;9;Explosive Trap;1 minute;The caster casts this spell on a combustible object and a non-magical triggering object. This sets the combustible object to explode once the holder of the triggering object mentally commands the explosion to trigger (which takes a reaction). The combustible object explodes, causing 9d6 fire damage in a 40’ radius, which ends the spell.;5d6 vs AGI halves;touch;6 + 2/F hours;special*;create trap
Combustion;10;Mass Grenade;1 round;Mass Grenade allows the caster to launch 2 + 1/2F combustible objects they can see within range, throwing it 30 + 10/F’ at a point they can see. As each object flies through the air, it ignites and explodes as it hits, dealing 4d6 fire/heat damage in a 5’ radius, with a 4d6 vs HEA to halve. Each grenade can be launched at a different target. If cast on an object with Modify Combustibility, the explosion is replaced by the new effect. A magical object must make a 4d6 vs PWR to negate this effect.;4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;2 + 1/2F objects;throw multiple grenades
Combustion;11;Pyro Ignition;1 round;The caster glares at a combustible object and at the snap of their finger, the target explodes into a ball of fire. Anyone within the area of the explosion takes 11d6 fire damage with an AGI resist check for half damage. The mass of the object changes the effect range of the explosion. A magical object must make a 5d6 vs PWR to negate this effect.0–20 lbs. : 20 + 5/F’ radius20–50 lbs. : 30 + 10/F’ radius50+ lbs. : 60 + 15/F’ radius;none, 5d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single combustible object;explode
Combustion;12;Exothermic Reaction;1 reaction*;The caster casts this spell on an explosion they can see within the range, which causes the explosion to explode again, although with a weaker effect. The resist check for this secondary explosion is reduced by 1 die, and the damage is reduced by 2 dice. Any additional effects beyond damage are not replicated.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single explosion;explode again
Combustion;13;Defusion Field;1 round;Defusion Field creates an aura that travels with the caster, which causes all combustible objects that enter the field to be snuffed out and unable to ignite. This will affect grenades and spells from this group, making them ineffective if they are within the aura. Objects that explode outside the radius can still capture the caster in their area of effect. A magical explosive must make a 5d6 vs PWR to negate this effect.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;aura of safety
Combustion;14;Self-Combustion;1 round;The caster begins breaking down the elements of their own body to trigger a volatile combustion. The caster takes 8d6 fire damage as their body explodes, dealing 16d6 fire damage to creatures in the area and pushes them 15 + 5/F’ away from the caster. The creatures can attempt a 6d6 vs HEA resist check to halve the damage, and to negate the push. This effect cannot be targeted by Exothermic Reaction.;none, 6d6 vs HEA halves;caster;instantaneous;self, 30 + 15/F’ radius;explode own self
Combustion;15;Arcane Volatility;1 round;Arcane Volatility destabilizes the target’s magic, inhibiting their control over their spells. Whenever the target casts a spell or activates a psionic ability during the spell’s duration, the magic has a 50% chance to explosively backfire on the caster, dealing a number of d6 equal to the spell’s rank in energy damage with a 3d6 vs PWR to halve. ;6d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;make magic volatile
Combustion;16;Consumir Chamas;1 round;If the target fails the resistance check, they are engulfed in a black flame. The flame consumes the target, killing the target and turning its body to ash. ;6d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;single target;turn target to ash
Chaos Magics;1;Chaos;1 round;The caster chooses a target and generates a random spell effect. This effect will last a maximum of 1 + 1/F minutes even if the duration listed is longer. ;none;LOS 100 + 20/F’;instantaneous;single target;random
Chaos Magics;2;Minor Element;1 round;The caster rolls a random elemental spell of rank 1-6 from any group except this one. The caster knows the spell that is rolled, and can choose whether or not to target that spell at either valid targets they can see within range or themself. Whatever target the caster chooses must be a valid target for the spell rolled, within that spell’s range and restrictions. The caster may finesse this spell when casting it and choose to apply those finesses in valid aspects of the spell after rolled.;special*;special*;instantaneous;special*;random elemental spell
Chaos Magics;3;Chaos Shield;1 round*;When the caster is hit by a spell or takes damage while this spell is active, they may end this spell as a reaction. If they do, they choose to either do (1d6)d6 energy damage to the person that triggered it or generate a random spell effect and the person that triggered this is both the caster and target for the purposes of that roll. The caster may have any number of Chaos Shields active at once, but may only activate one of them per round.The caster can use this spell with their reaction, but must fully finesse the spell doing so.;none;caster;10 + 10/F minutes;caster;chaotic revenge
Chaos Magics;4;Chaos Student;1 reaction*;The caster may cast this spell as a reaction to a chaos roll being made in the range. This spell causes that roll to be rerolled, the caster must take the second roll. The usual limit of only being able to spend EU up to a caster’s PWR per round applies, so someone with low PWR may not be able to cast this on some of their own Chaos Magics spells. ;none;LOS 100 + 20/F’;instantaneous;single chaos roll;change roll
Chaos Magics;5;Minor Other;1 round;The caster rolls a random divine spell or psionic ability of rank 1-6.The caster knows the spell that is rolled, and can choose whether or not to target that spell at either valid targets they can see within range or themself. Whatever target the caster chooses must be a valid target for the spell rolled, within that spell’s range and restrictions. The caster may finesse this spell when casting it and choose to apply those finesses in valid aspects of the spell after rolled.;special*;special*;instantaneous;special*;random spell
Chaos Magics;6;Control Chaos;1 reaction*;When a chaos roll is made within range, the caster may cast this spell as a reaction and change that roll by up to 1 + 1/F. The caster knows the effects that would result from this spell and is able to choose the desired effect from the options provided.;none;caster;instantaneous;single chaos roll;adjust chaos
Chaos Magics;7;Chaos Bolt;1 round;The target takes 7d6 damage of a random type. Roll 1d6 to determine the damage type as follows: 1 – acid, 2 – cold, 3 – fire, 4 – lightning, 5 – poison, 6 – roll twice, choose between two results; ignore further 6s and duplicate rolls.;4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 100 + 20/F’;instantaneous;single target;chaos damage
Chaos Magics;8;Major Element;1 round;The caster rolls a random elemental spell of rank 7-12 from any group except this one. The caster knows the spell that is rolled, and can choose whether or not to target that spell at either valid targets they can see within range or themself. Whatever target the caster chooses must be a valid target for the spell rolled, within that spell’s range and restrictions. The caster may finesse this spell when casting it and choose to apply those finesses in valid aspects of the spell after rolled.;special*;special*;instantaneous;special*;random elemental spell
Chaos Magics;9;Chaos Master;1 reaction*;The caster may cast this spell as a reaction to a chaos roll being made in the range. This spell causes that roll to be rerolled twice, the caster may choose any of the three rolls. The usual limit of only being able to spend EU up to a caster’s PWR per round applies, so someone with low PWR may not be able to cast this on most of their own Chaos Magics spells. ;none;LOS 200 + 40/F’;instantaneous;single chaos roll;change roll
Chaos Magics;10;Super Chaos;1 round;The caster chooses a target and generates a random spell effect. They may choose up to 2 + 1/F effects within 4 + 2/F of the rolled effect if they wish. They may not choose the same effect twice and must choose at least one effect. These effects will last a maximum of 1 + 1/F days even if the duration listed is longer. ;none;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;single target;controlled randomness
Chaos Magics;11;Major Other;1 round;The caster rolls a random divine spell or psionic ability of rank 7-12.The caster knows the spell that is rolled, and can choose whether or not to target that spell at either valid targets they can see within range or themself. Whatever target the caster chooses must be a valid target for the spell rolled, within that spell’s range and restrictions. The caster may finesse this spell when casting it and choose to apply those finesses in valid aspects of the spell after rolled.;special*;special*;instantaneous;special*;random spell
Chaos Magics;12;Chaos Curse;2 rounds;If the target fails their resist check, all magic that they cast or activate from magic items or creature abilities is changed to chaos magic for the duration. Each time they cast a spell, randomly determine the result as follows:  D4         Effect1          The spell does not go off and generate a random spell effect. 2          The spell goes off on the caster if they were targeting someone else or on a random person within 100’ if they were targeting themselves, even if it is caster only.3          Roll 1d12 and that ranked spell in the group they were casting goes off on the original target if they are a valid target for a new spell, or the caster if not.4          The spell functions normally, but also generates a random spell effect. ;5d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 200 + 40/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;screw with magic
Chaos Magics;13;Chaos Blade;1 minute;The damage on the affected magical weapon is randomized and improved. The bonus to the attack roll is not impacted, but the magical bonus to the damage is replaced, depending on the strength of the weapon enchantment: +1 becomes +1d4, +2 becomes +1d6, +3 becomes +1d8, +4 becomes +1d10, +5 becomes +1d12. For bonuses beyond +5, add two to the die size for each point above five. Additionally, the damage type is randomized every day between: 1 – acid, 2 – cold, 3 – fire, 4 – lightning, 5 – poison, 6 – energy. ;none;touch;permanent;one magic weapon;improve damage
Chaos Magics;14;Death Lottery;1 round;Whichever creature in the area of effect fails their resist check by the largest amount takes 3d6 blight damage per creature in the area of effect. If there is a tie, split the damage evenly amongst all the creatures that are tied. If no one fails the resist check, nothing happens. ;6d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 200 + 40/F’;instantaneous;30 + 10/F’ radius;luck of the draw
Chaos Magics;15;Kaosovoki;5 rounds;This spell calls 1d6 + 2/F chaos elementals to the caster to do their bidding. The elementals will serve the caster, even in combat. At the end of the spell’s duration there is a 40% chance the elementals will attempt to take the caster with them when they leave, a 40% chance they will attempt to kill the caster, and only a 20% chance that they leave peacefully. ;none;LOS 100 + 20/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;special*;chaos elementals
Chaos Magics;16;Cheap Chaos;1 minute;The target may reduce the cost of any of their spells by up to four, with a minimum cost of one. When they cast a spell with a reduced cost, roll 1d6. The result of the roll is as follows: 1 – the spell goes off normally.2 – reduce a random attribute of the spell that can be finessed by the amount of cost reduction. If it doesn’t have an attribute that can be reduced, roll again.3 – roll a die equal to the amount of units they spent on the spell and cast the spell of the rolled rank in the group they were casting from instead.4 – cast a random spell of the same rank as the spell they were trying to cast, from the same spell type elemental, divine, or psionic.5 – take 1d6 energy damage per unit of reduced cost and the spell goes off normally.6 – take 1d6 energy damage per unit of reduced cost and roll again.;willing target;touch;permanent;single target;cheaper spells
Cindrolafo;1;Ash Strike;1 round;The target of this spell must be standing on natural earth or stone for this spell to take effect. The caster channels geothermal energy to the ground where the target is standing, causing it to scorch and erupt with cinders and ashes. The target takes 1d6 of earth or fire damage (caster’s choice). If the target of this spell is standing in or on ash, such as an area created by Ash Field, they must also make a 3d6 vs PER or be Blinded for one round.;none*;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target*;erupting ash
Cindrolafo;2;Lava Bullet;1 round;Once each round a stone or bullet fired from the affected ranged weapon is melted into magma. The projectile inflicts an additional 1d8 fire damage (bonus) on hit.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single weapon;turn projectile molten
Cindrolafo;3;Cremation;1 minute;Cremation cremates the touched corpse and its worn belongings, leaving only a pile of ash. The spell will not work on undeads. Any worn piece of equipment must make a check of 3d6 vs its Fire Resist or be destroyed too, and magical items must make a 3d6 vs PWR check to negate this effect.;none;touch;instantaneous;single corpse;create corpse
Cindrolafo;4;Ash Field;1 round;The caster gathers energy from the elemental planes of earth and fire, combining them to produce a magical field of ash and cinders that hangs in the air, lightly obscuring the area. The area of the ash field cannot be brighter than dim lighting. A creature that moves more than 10 feet through the ash field in one round must make a 3d6 vs PER or be blinded for one round.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;60 + 15/F’ radius;field of ash
Cindrolafo;5;Shape Lava;1 round;The caster can manipulate a 10 + 5/F’ cube of lava in one of the following ways, choosing the order that this occurs.The lava instantaneously moves or otherwise changes its flow up to 5 + 2/F feet in any direction. If this is directed towards a creature, the creature must make a 3d6 vs AGI check to halve 4d6 fire damage.The lava forms simple shapes and animates to the caster’s whims.The lava cools and hardens into stone, which will naturally begin to melt.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;10 + 5/F’ cube;manipulate lava
Cindrolafo;6;Summon Laf’hundo;2 rounds;The caster must cast this spell on a 5’ cube of earth or stone. The section of earth or stone begins to melt and over the course of the casting time, it crackles and morphs into the shape of a large hound, about 4’ long and 3’ tall. This Lava Hound  is under the caster’s control. Only one Lava Hound can be summoned and controlled at a time.Refer to Appendix C: Spell Clarification for creature write ups and control mechanics.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minute;5’ cube of earth/stone;summon lava hounds
Cindrolafo;7;Lava;2 rounds;This spell changes the indicated amount of non-magical stone into lava. Any object that touches the lava suffers 6d6 points of fire damage. A resistance check of four dice against HEA is allowed for half damage. The lava will cool at a normal rate and eventually turn back into stone. ;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;5 + 2/F’ radius;turn rock to lava
Cindrolafo;8;Magma Armor;1 round;Magma Armor surrounds the target with a thin, protective shield of molten earth. This grants 4/4/0 to their magic DVs. Additionally, any creature that hits the target with a combat attack takes 1d6 fire damage as the magma splashes back towards them. This damage occurs per hit.;willing target;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;grant magma armor
Cindrolafo;9;Molten Cerberus;1 round;The caster channels the power of the elemental planes of earth and fire, and fires 3 bolts of ash and lava at three creatures within range. Multiple bolts can be targeted at a single creature if desired. These bolts take the form of three canine heads which bite at the targets. Each target must make a 4d6 vs HEA to halve 3d6 fire or earth damage (caster’s choice). Additionally, each target is surrounded in a 10’ radius field of ash, regardless of the success of the resist check. These ash fields function identically to that of the Ash Field spell. The fields do not follow the targets.;4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 20 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;three creatures;tri-headed attack
Cindrolafo;10;Volcanic Storm;2 rounds;Volcanic Storm opens a small rift to the intersection between the elemental planes of earth and fire, from which spews out molten earth and superheated ash. Any creatures within the area of the spell when it is cast must make a 5d6 vs HEA check to halve 8d6 fire or earth damage (caster’s choice). The area is filled with a field of cinders and ash for the next 4 + 2/F rounds. A creature that moves through the field takes 1d6 fire damage for each 10 feet it moves in a round. The field additionally has the effects of the Ash Field spell.;5d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;special*;40 + 5/F’ radius;burning ash storm
Cindrolafo;11;Lava Chains;1 round;The caster causes chains of molten metal to burst from the ground and reach to shackle the target. If they fail the resistance check, they are Rooted and take 3d6 fire damage at the start of each of their turns while Rooted by this spell. The target can make a 5d6 vs STR from the chains after being shackled at the end of each of their turns, ending the spell on a success. If the target is flying or can fly, they are grounded for the duration of the spell.;5d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;restrain with lava
Cindrolafo;12;Magma Mortar;1 round;Magma Mortar opens a rift to the intersection between the elemental planes of earth and fire, funneling magma and ash into a powerful stream. Objects and creatures in this line must make the resistance check or take 12d6 fire or earth damage (caster’s choice), halved on a success. In addition, a 30’ radius around the caster becomes an ash field, as ash spews from the rift. This ash field functions identically to that of the Ash Field spell.;5d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;instantaneous;4 + 1/F’ wide line;torrent of magma
Cindrolafo;13;Lava Terrain;1 round;The affected area of ground becomes a thin layer of molten lava and 15 + 5/F’’ of air above it is filled with burning cinders of ash. For the duration, any creature that moves through the lava takes 3d6 fire damage per 5 feet it moves in a round, making the resist check at the end of its movement to halve it. Additionally the area of ash functions identically to that of the Ash Field spell.;5d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;30 + 10/F’ radius;floor is lava
Cindrolafo;14;Pyroclasm;1 round;The caster points toward an area of ground within range, and opens a rift to the intersection between the elemental planes of earth and fire. A geyser of lava erupts from the chosen spot. The geyser is 10 + 5’ in radius and 30 + 10/F’ high. Each creature in the cylinder when it erupts must make the 6d6 vs AGI resist check or take 10d6 fire or earth damage (caster’s choice), or half as much damage if it makes a successful resist check.The geyser also forms a pool of lava at its base, with the same radius as the geyser. This lava functions identically to the lava in the Lava Terrain spell, although no ash is produced.The caster can spend an action within the duration of the spell to cause another geyser to erupt at a point within range.;6d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;2 + 1/F rounds;special*;geyser of lava
Cindrolafo;15;Lafovoki;4 rounds;Lafovoki summons 4 + 2/F lava elementals from any flame source (a candle is sufficient) or source of natural earth within the target area. Refer to Appendix C: Spell Clarification for creature write ups and control mechanics.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;special*;summon lava elementals
Cindrolafo;16;Ashen Phoenix;1 hour;When the caster dies within the duration of the spell, they explode with ash and lava. Each creature within 30 + 10/F’ of the caster must make a 6d6 vs AGI resist check to halve 16d6 fire or earth damage (caster’s choice), and a cloud of ash erupts in a 120 + 30/F’ radius, which functions identically to the field in the Ash Field spell. The caster is resurrected at half their DP at the start of their next turn. Only one instance of Ashen Phoenix can be cast on an individual at a time.;none;caster;1 + 1/F weeks;self;fiery death and rebirth
Smoke;1;Cloud;1 round;Cloud creates a white cloud of smoke that lightly obscures all objects within the area of effect. Visibility is reduced to 40 feet for creatures inside the cloud.;none;LOS 120 + 30/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;cloud of smoke
Smoke;2;Incense;1 round;The caster creates a cloud of gray, lightly obscuring smoke that fills the area with a non-offensive odor. The exact smell of the incense is of the caster’s choosing. Visibility is reduced to 40 feet for creatures inside the cloud. ;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;scented smoke
Smoke;3;Smog;1 round;The caster summons a small fire, which creates a brown, lightly obscuring, noxious cloud of smoke that contains dust and other fine particles. Anyone in the area of effect that fails the resistance check begins coughing and is Dazed. They reattempt the resist check at the beginning of each turn while within the smog. Visibility is reduced to 40 feet for creatures inside the cloud.;4d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 30 + 5/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;unpleasant smoke
Smoke;4;Hide;1 round;The area of effect is filled with a thick black smoke that prohibits anyone from seeing through the area. Creatures inside the radius are Blinded. Alternate forms of vision can be used to see through the smoke.;none;LOS 20 + 5/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;thick smoke
Smoke;5;Tint;2 rounds;Tint causes a crystal or glass object to darken and become semi-opaque. This will block half of all light from passing through the object. Light-based spells passing through the affected glass are affected accordingly (GM’s discretion). A magical item must make a 3d6 vs PWR to negate this effect.;none;touch;12 + 3/F hours;single glass object;tint glass
Smoke;6;Tear Gas;2 rounds;This spell creates a white cloud of smoke that causes all breathing creatures within it that fail the resistance check to be brought to tears. Their vision is reduced to 30 feet, which inhibits Line of Sight targeting for ranged attacks and spells. They reattempt the resist check at the beginning of each turn while within the tear gas.;4d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;tear gas smoke
Smoke;7;Intoxicating Cloud;2 rounds;This spell creates a light green smoke that fills the area. Those in it who fail the resistance check feel the effects normally associated with a rank 1 Sago Weed: they receive a +2 magical bonus to their CSE attribute and any non-magical mental illnesses are temporarily cleared. If the affected creature leaves the area of effect, the effects remain for an additional half hour. A creature reattempts the resistance check every 5 minutes spent within the smoke.;4d6 vs HEA negates;LSO 20 + 5/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;drugged smoke
Smoke;8;Sleep Smoke;2 rounds;This spell creates a light purple smoke that fills the area. All creatures within the area of effect that fail the resistance check fall into a magical sleep for 30 + 10/F minutes. Resistance checks must be made for every round that a creature is in the area of effect.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;sleeping smoke
Smoke;9;Spirit Smoke;2 rounds;This spell creates a light red smoke that fills the area and outlines all ethereal creatures and spirits. If the creature fails a 4d6 vs PWR check, they become material, obtaining a form that best fits their shape, and maintaining the ability to fly. They will become immaterial again one round after they exit the smoke.;special*;LOS 40 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;spirit revealing smoke
Smoke;10;Pain Smoke;2 rounds;This spell creates damaging white smoke in the area. Targets in the area of effect who breathe in the smoke will start coughing violently and take 4d6 pain damage, or half as much on a successful resist check. The resist check and damage are repeated each round a creature remains in the smoke. ;5d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;damaging smoke
Smoke;11;Cataract;2 rounds;If the target fails the resistance check, then they develop cataracts in both of their eyes. The lenses of their eyes cloud over and their vision is reduced to 120 - 30/F feet.;5d6 vs HEA negates;touch;permanent;single creature;cloud vision
Smoke;12;Smoke Armor;1 round;This spell creates a suit of smoke armor that envelops the caster. It gives the defense values of (10/10/6). This armor has no movement and attribute penalties.;none;caster;12 + 3/F hours;self;create magical armor
Smoke;13;Gaseous Form;2 rounds;The target assumes a gaseous form that resembles a cloud smoke of any color the caster chooses. While in this form, the target can pass through small cracks, pipes, or move through the air at their normal land movement rate. Wind conditions can affect the target’s normal movement. In this form, the target is considered immaterial. ;willing target;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature;turn to smoke
Smoke;14;Burning Smoke;1 round;The caster summons a small fire which creates a cloud of blue, acidic smoke. The acid suspended in the smoke will cause 5d6 acid damage to any creature in the area of effect. The resist check and damage are repeated each round a creature remains in the smoke. The cloud can be moved by natural or magical wind, but will retain its shape for the duration of the spell. Fresh Air or similar spells will not purify the area. ;5d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;40 + 10/F’ radius;acidic smoke
Smoke;15;Fumivoki;4 rounds;Fumivoki summons 4 + 2/F smoke elementals within the target area.Refer to Appendix C: Spell Clarification for creature write ups and control mechanics.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;special*;summon smoke elementals
Smoke;16;Killer Smoke;2 rounds;This spell summons a cloud of lethal smoke. Those in the area of effect must make the resistance check each round they remain in the area of effect or die.;6d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 120 + 30/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10’ radius;deadly smoke
Blood Magics;1;Blood Spike;1 round;Branding, Acidic 1d6The caster fires a spike of solid blood dealing 1d6 physical, piercing damage to the target. The caster can fully finesse this spell to automatically make the Brand from it the strongest active Brand. This will demote any other such Brands to the same level as an un-finessed Blood Spike.;none;LOS 80 + 20/F’;instantaneous;single target;spike of solid blood
Blood Magics;2;Blood Analyst;4 rounds;For the duration of the spell, the caster sees blood drops in the area of effect up to 1 week old. Finesses can provide additional information about the blood: 1 - Distinguish blood from different creatures2 - Race and exact number of creatures3 - Type of weapon that caused blood loss 4 - In what direction creatures moved and with what speed;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;50 + 10/F’ radius;analyze blood sample
Blood Magics;3;Bloody Trail;1 minute;PurgingFor the duration of the spell, the caster can sense the distance and direction to the creature that left a blood sample or to the strongest Brand. The creature is located up to the nearest 300’. When fully finessed, the caster takes one die off any Survival: Tracking/Stalking checks to track the creature.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;8 + 2/F miles;track blood
Blood Magics;4;Heartseeker;1 round;The caster can sense heartbeats of other creatures within the area of effect and knows the distance and direction to these creatures. When fully finessed, damage of any Branding spell is increased by 3.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;100 + 20/F’ radius;sense heartbeats
Blood Magics;5;Acidic Blood;1 round;When the caster is damaged by a combat attack, drops of caster’s blood that leave their body become acidic and deal 4d6 acid damage to the attacker. Any attacks from the same attacker past the first deal 1d6 acid damage.;4d6 vs HEA halves;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;self;acidify blood
Blood Magics;6;Sanguine Restoration;1 round;PurgingThe caster uses blood brands near them to leech off enemies’ life force. Every Branded living creature in the area takes 1d6 points of blight damage and the caster is healed for the total amount of damage dealt up to their maximum DP.;none;caster;instantaneous;20 + 5/F’ radius;recollect blood
Blood Magics;7;Blood Shards;1 round;Branding, Acidic 1d6The caster is surrounded by 6 + 2/F floating shards of solid blood. Shards automatically hit, at caster’s discretion, anything within the spell's area of effect. A creature hit by a shard takes 1d6 physical, piercing damage. Any single creature can only be hit with a single Blood Shard per round. When fully finessed, 2 additional shards are summoned every round for the duration.;none;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;80 + 20/F’ radius;multiple blood spikes
Blood Magics;8;Crimson Pull;1 round;PurgingThis spell momentarily generates a powerful attractive force centered at the targeted point. Any Branded creature within the area must succeed a resistance check of five dice vs STR or be pulled to the center of the targeted area and knocked prone. If more than one creature fails the resist check, all affected creatures take 3d6 blunt damage as they bump into each other.;5d6 vs STR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;20 + 5/F’ radius;pull on blood
Blood Magics;9;Sanguine Armament;1 round;Branding, Acidic 1d6The caster forms part of their blood into an enchanted weapon. The weapon can be any mundane weapon type and is enchanted to +1 + 1/F. For ranged weapons, ammo can be created for 1 DP per arrow/bolt.;none;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;self;blood weapons/ammo
Blood Magics;10;Crimson Flash;1 round;PurgingFor the duration of the spell, the caster may use their fifth to teleport next to any Branded creature within 120’ of themselves, which Purges the chosen creature of their Brand at the moment of teleportation.;none;caster, LOS 120’;1 + 1/F minutes;self;teleport to Brand
Blood Magics;11;Explode Blood;1 round;PurgingThe caster’s blood inside Branded creatures within the area of effect explodes, dealing 10d6 fire/heat damage. When fully finessed, the caster may choose to exclude any number of Branded creatures from this effect.;6d6 vs HEA halves;caster;instantaneous;100 + 25/F’ radius;explode Brands
Blood Magics;12;Crimson Attraction/Repulsion;1 round;PurgingThis spell creates an area of force that affects any Branded creature. The spell is used in one of two modes declared at the time of casting:Attraction: Affected creatures inside the area cannot leave the area unless they succeed at the resistance check of six dice against their STR attribute.Repulsion: Affected creatures outside of the area cannot enter it unless they succeed at the resistance check of six dice against their STR attribute.The Brand is purged at the end of the spell’s duration if the creature attempted the resistance check. If the Brand is purged by any other effect, this spell no longer affects the creature.;6d6 vs STR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;20 + 5/F’ radius;trap/repel Brands
Blood Magics;13;Sanguine Pool;1 round;Branding, Acidic 2d6The caster sinks into a 10 + 5/F’ radius pool of blood and becomes Immaterial. Each round, crimson tendrils shoot out of the pool, piercing every living creature in the area of the pool. Each creature takes 6d6 piercing damage and the caster heals for half of the total amount of piercing damage dealt, up to their maximum DP. While under this effect, the caster may move their fifth, but isn’t able to attack, cast spells or use their items.;5d6 vs AGI halves;caster;4 rounds;self, 10 + 5/F’ radius;become deadly blood
Blood Magics;14;Hemoportation;1 round;PurgingThe spell exploits the connection between the caster and the strongest active Brand. It can be used in one of two ways:Target-to-Caster: the Branded creature sinks into a pool of blood and reappears next to the caster unless they succeed a six dice resistance check against their PWR attribute.Caster-to-Target: the caster sinks into a pool of blood and reappears next to the Branded creature. The caster may not bring other creatures with them.When fully finessed this spell functions across planes.;6d6 vs PWR negates*;caster;instantaneous;self, single creature;transport to or call Brand
Blood Magics;15;Ultimate Blood Ground;1 round;The caster opens a domain of blood magic centered around themself. The caster of the domain can choose any other living creature within the domain to pay the DP cost of any Blood Magics spell being cast. If the creature fails a 5d6 vs HEA attribute resistance check, it loses DP equal to the DP cost of the Blood Magics spell being used by the caster and the DP cost of the spell is considered paid.In addition, this effect augments other Blood Magics effects originating from the caster:Blood Spike: A spike’s base damage is increased to 2d6, the target distance is extended to cover the entire domain.Sanguine Restoration: The amount of blight damage is increased from 1d6 to 2d6.Blood Shards: A shard’s base damage is increased to 2d6, the area of effect is extended to cover the entire domain.Crimson Pull: Damage is increased to 6d6 blunt damage.Crimson Flash: Brand is not purged until the end of the spell’s duration.Explode Blood: The area of effect is extended to cover the entire domain.;5d6 vs HEA negates;caster;10 + 5/F minutes;200 + 50/F’ radius;create domain of blood
Blood Magics;16;Blood Lotus;1 round;PurgingThe spell causes the target's blood to instantly vaporize inside their body. If the target fails the resist check, their body explodes, killing them instantly, leaving flower-like ruptured remains on the ground. If the creature makes the resistance check, they take 8d6 (12d6 if Branded) fire/heat damage instead.;6d6 vs HEA partial;LOS 100 + 25/F’;instantaneous;single creature;vaporize blood
