Water Magics;1;Spray;1 round;Spray causes elemental water to spurt from the caster’s fingertips. The spray is very fine, and everyone in the area of effect who fails the resistance check is Drenched as if in a thunderstorm. Torch-sized fires are extinguished, and items susceptible to water damage might be harmed (GM discretion). ;3d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;saturate
Water Magics;1;Splash;1 round;The caster gathers elemental water into a fist-sized sphere between their hands, and launches it at a target at high speeds, dealing 1d6 of water damage. A Splash always hits the target, but magical resistance can negate or reduce the damage (GM’s discretion).;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single creature;splash of water
Water Magics;2;Well;1 minute;Well enables the caster to find potable water in any natural environment. They cause a 6 + 2/F’ radius area of natural ground to muddle and form a pool of potable drinking water. The water is real and can be stored for later use.;none;LOS 40 + 10/F’;10 + 5/F minutes;6 + 2/F’ radius;dig a well
Water Magics;3;Level;1 round;Level allows the caster to control the level of any aqueous liquid up or down 4 + 2/F’ within the area indicated. The liquid is displaced, not created or destroyed.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;raise/lower water level
Water Magics;4;Ice Ball;1 round;This spell enables the caster to summon a snowball of ice and snow in their hand and throw it at a target within range each round of the duration (including the round that this spell is cast). The target of the snowball must make the resist check to halve 3d6 cold damage. Throwing another snowball takes an action.;3d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single target;launch snowball
Water Magics;4;Healing Waters;2 rounds;This spell must be cast upon a Drenched target, or it will have no effect. The caster pulls upon the elemental plane of water to enchant the water covering a Drenched creature with restorative energy, healing the target and closing small wounds. This heals the target 4d6 DP up to the target’s maximum DP.;3d6 vs WIL negates;touch;instantaneous;single creature;heal with water
Water Magics;5;Gills;1 round;Gills enables the recipient to extract oxygen from water. This spell grants the target(s) the Water Breathing creature ability for the duration.;4d6 vs WIL negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;1 + 1/2F creatures;grant waterbreathing
Water Magics;5;Bubble;1 rounds;Bubble launches a sphere of elemental water at a target, and if they fail the resist check, it creates a shimmering bubble around the target, and they begin floating a few feet into the air. The affected creature is considered Grappled by the bubble, and the bubble rolls 3d6 to maintain the grapple.;4d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;suspension bubble
Water Magics;6;Hot or Cold;2 rounds;Hot or Cold enables the caster to control the temperature of the indicated volume of any aqueous substance, making it boil or freeze, or any temperature between. The desired temperature is maintained for the duration, after which the temperature normalizes according to the ambient air temperature. If a creature is in the area of effect and they fail a resistance check, they either take 6d6 points of heat damage while in the area (boiling) or are Physically Paralyzed in a ball of ice for the duration (freezing). ;4d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;4 + 2/F’ radius;boil or freeze
Water Magics;7;Rain Dance;1 minute;The mage who performs a Rain Dance can cause a heavy rain or heavy snow (depending on prevailing air temperature) to begin falling, or if cast during a rain or snowstorm, cause the precipitation to stop. The area is centered on the caster, and will move with them.;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;2000 + 1000/F’ radius;control precipitation 
Water Magics;7;Akvoblovo;1 round;Akvoblovo opens a small opening to the elemental plane of water, from which torrents forth a blast of high pressure water in a cone. All in the area of effect must make the resist check to halve 6d6 water damage.;4d6 vs HEA halves;caster;instantaneous;10’ x 80’ cone;high pressure water
Water Magics;8;Hail;1 round;Hail causes a blast of hail to strike the area indicated within range causing 2d6 cold damage to all within the area. The caster can choose a different area within range each round the spell is active for the hail to blast.;none;LOS 60 + 20/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;blast of hail
Water Magics;8;Control Water;1 round;The caster can manipulate a 20 + 10/F’ cube of water in one of the following ways, choosing the order that this occurs.The water instantaneously torrents 10 + 5/F feet in any direction. If this is directed towards a creature, the creature must make a 4d6 vs AGI check to halve 4d6 water damage.The water forms simple shapes and animates to the caster’s whims.The water freezes into ice, which will naturally begin to melt. If this is done while a creature is inside it, they must make a 4d6 vs STR resist check or they are Physically Paralyzed by the ice. They may reattempt the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on a success.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;10 + 5/F’ cube;manipulate water
Water Magics;9;Dam;2 rounds;Dam creates an invisible wall of force which stops the flow of water in a stream or currents in a lake or sea. If the dam can touch land at both ends, it will hold back rising water. If land cannot be touched the water will flow around the Dam with increased force on either side. When the spell ends, any pent-up water is released. ;none;LOS 100 + 30/F’;2 + 1/F hours;60 + 15/F’ radius;stop water flow
Water Magics;10;Waterwalk;1 minute;Waterwolk allows the caster and anyone he can touch during the casting time the ability to walk on water or any other liquid surface (such as mud, acid, quicksand, or lava) without sinking as if it were harmless solid ground. If this spell is cast on submerged creatures, the spell carries them to the surface at a rate of 60’ per round, and protects them from any sort of depressurization effects.;4d6 vs PWR negates;multitouch;30 + 10/F minutes;touched creatures;walk on water
Water Magics;11;Fulmfrosto;2 rounds;Fulmfrosto causes latent moisture within the area of effect to suddenly freeze, totally collapsing and destroying most wooden or other porous objects (such as sandstone). Living creatures must make a 5d6 vs HEA check to halve 8d6 ice/cold damage.;5d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;20 + 5/F’ radius;destruction
Water Magics;11;Acid Spray;2 rounds;The caster gathers elemental water and acidifies it, before blasting it in a 25’ x 50’ cone in front of them. Those in the area must make the 5d6 vs AGI resist check to halve 6d6 acid damage. Those that fail the resistance check are additionally covered in acid, and will take 3d6 more acid damage at the end of their next turn, unless they take an action to wipe the acid off.;5d6 vs AGI halves;caster;instantaneous;25’ x 50’ cone;spray acid
Water Magics;12;Ocean Cold;1 rounds;Ocean Cold puts the chill of the deepest oceans at the caster’s command. They spray a fine freezing mist in a cone extending from the caster’s outstretched hands. Any creature that starts their turn in the area must make the resist check to halve 3d6 cold damage. Creatures that fail additionally have their movement speed reduced by half. The caster can change the direction of the cone on their turn as a free action.;5d6 vs HEA halves;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;10’ x 80’ cone;torrent of cold water
Water Magics;13;Torrent;1 minute;Torrent causes the sky to cloud over and unleash extreme flooding rain for the duration. Such a massive downpour of rain may cause structures to be damaged or even washed away (GM’s discretion).;none;caster;2 + 1/F hours;2000 + 1000/F’ radius;torrential downpour
Water Magics;14;Divert;1 minute;Divert enables the caster to change the course of a stream or river up to 100 + 50/F’ wide, redirecting the flow in any direction, even uphill. Using this spell to make a new channel is permanent, but directional changes (reversing normal flow direction, causing the river to stand still, etc.) will only last one day.;none;LOS 120 + 30/F’;special*;100 + 50/F’ wide;change course
Water Magics;15;Akvovoki;4 rounds;Akvovoki summons 4 + 2/F water elementals from any water source (a cup of water is sufficient) within the target area. Refer to Appendix C: Spell Clarification for creature write ups and control mechanics.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;special*;water elementals
Water Magics;16;Tidal Wave;2 rounds;Tidal Wave creates a vast wall of moving water on a river, lake, or ocean within range. The wall height will range from 1d4 times 10’ for a river, 1d10 times 10’ for a lake, or 1d20 times 10’ for the ocean. Once cast, the wave will strike in 1d12 rounds. All trees and structures are washed away (GM’s discretion on exceptionally strong stone structures). Creatures that cannot breathe underwater must succeed at a 5d6 vs HEA each round in the tidal wave or die until they can either escape the water or succeed at a 5d6 skill check against Athletics: Swimming.;special*;LOS 240 + 60/F’;instantaneous;special*;create tidal wave
Wardings;1;Forfend;4 rounds;The magician must touch at least three points on the ground within the area to outline a two-dimensional shape (three would result in a triangle, but as many points as the caster desires can be selected) during the casting time to set the ward. Any person or creature attempting to enter the area must make the resistance check to do so. The ward extends 10 + 5/F’ above the ground, and is capped above.;3d6 vs PWR negates;special*;12 + 3/F hours;up to 20 + 5/F’ radius;ward area from all
Wardings;2;Vigla Fontano;1 minute;Fountain can be cast on a source of water (a cup of water is sufficient). When an intruder enters the area, the water starts to bubble with a gentle burbling noise that awakens the caster, even from a magical sleep. ;none;touch;12 + 3/F hours;20 + 5/F’ radius;fountain alarm
Wardings;3;Poison Sight;4 rounds;Poisonward reveals the presence of poisonous creatures or items in the target’s LOS. Such creatures or objects are highlighted with a green aura in the target’s vision.  If the spell is finessed four times, the target additionally gains one rank of Resist Poison for the spell’s duration.;willing target;touch;30 + 10/F minutes;single creature;reveal poisons
Wardings;4;Stay;4 rounds;The magician must touch at least four corners of the area to be warded during the casting time. Anyone can enter the warded area, but cannot leave unless the resistance check is made. The ward extends 10 + 5/F’ above the ground, and is capped above.;3d6 vs PWR negates;special*;12 + 3/F hours;up to 5 + 3/F’ radius;prevent exit
Wardings;5;Weapon Sight;4 rounds;The target of Weapon Sight must be a willing target of the spell. The target is immediately forewarned of the location of weapons anywhere within 120 feet of their LOS. Anyone carrying weapons cannot approach within 5’ of the target unless a 3d6 vs WIL resist check is made. Any creatures already within the area when the spell is cast must make the resist check or immediately move out of the area on their turn.;special*;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single creature, 5’ radius;reveal weapons
Wardings;6;Ward of Alertness;4 rounds;The caster touches multiple willing targets during the casting time, and for the spell’s duration, the touched individuals are protected from ambushes. The touched individuals automatically win the contested roll if they are being ambushed.;willing targets;multitouch;6 + 2/F hours;touched targets;proof against ambush
Wardings;7;Monitor;1 round;Monitor enables the caster to remotely monitor the condition of any wards they have set, finding out if they have expired or if they have been tested or breached. The caster establishes Monitor by touching the perimeter of a warded area or object and casts the spell. The caster can then go elsewhere. A number of wards equal to the caster’s INT/5 may be simultaneously monitored through multiple uses of this spell.;none;touch;12 + 3/F hours;caster;remotely monitor wards
Wardings;8;Selective Ward;4 rounds;Selective Ward gives the caster control over what creature types may enter the warded area. The ward is set by touching at least four corners of the area during the casting time while stating 1 + 1/F creature types (Dragons/Drakos, Genies, Elementals, Giants, Undead, or Demons) are excluded. Creatures of the selected type(s) must make the resistance check to enter; others may pass freely. ;4d6 vs PWR negates;special*;12 + 3/F hours;up to 20 + 5/F’ radius;bar creature types
Wardings;9;Claw Ward;4 rounds;The target of this spell must be willing. Creatures with claws, fangs, or other natural weapons attacking the recipient of Claw Ward must make a 4d6 vs WIL resistance check before attempting the blow. If the resistance check is failed, no attack can be made on the target creature that round (the creature must target a different target, or their attacks may be wasted). The creature must attempt the resistance check each round they attempt to attack the target. ;special*;special*;6 + 2/F hours;single creature;abjure  natural weapons
Wardings;10;Akvo’kiraso;2 rounds;The target is granted armor of swirling water. While wearing the armor, the target  is considered Drenched, gains a swimming speed of 60’ per round, and is immune to any penalties from being submerged underwater. Additionally, any creature that hits the target with a combat attack becomes Drenched as the armor splashes back on the attacker.;willing target;touch;1 + 1/F minute;single creature;water armor
Wardings;11;Magic Ward;4 rounds;The magician must touch at least four corners of the area to be warded during the casting time. If a spell is cast and targeted into the warded area, the opposing caster must roll a number of dice equal to the rank of the spell. The caster of this ward then rolls 11 dice. If the opposing caster’s roll is higher, the spell functions normally, otherwise, the spell does not function but the units for casting the spell are still spent. ;special*;special*;6 + 2/F hours;up to 30 + 10/F’ radius;shield against spells
Wardings;12;Master Ward;4 rounds;Master Ward enables the caster to set up any spell they can cast as the penalty for breaching a ward. The ward is set by touching the at least four corners of the area to create the Master Ward, and casting the penalty spell (including any allowable finesses) into it. There is a 5d6 vs PWR resist check to enter the warded area. If this ward is breached, the second spell is triggered, and the infiltrator must make the resist check for this second spell immediately upon entering. The penalty spell can be a touch spell which will target the creature that breaches the ward, otherwise targeting is determined from the center of the ward when the spell is cast. ;special*;special*;12 + 3/F hours;up to 30 + 10/F’ radius;spellcasting ward
Wardings;13;Spirit Ward;4 rounds;Spirit Ward is set by the caster by touching at least four corners of the area during the casting time. Spirits (including genies, ghosts, divine spirits, animal spirits, elemental spirits, nomadic guardian spirits, etc.) cannot enter the warded area unless the resistance check is made. Additionally, any spirits that pass the resistance check and enter the area are treated as material while they remain in the area. Creatures with Spirit Armor lose any benefits from it while in the area.;5d6 vs PWR negates;special*;12 +3/F hours;up to 30 + 10/F’ radius;ward against spirits
Wardings;14;Ward of Obfuscation;4 rounds;The caster sets Ward of Obfuscation by touching at least four corners of the area during the casting time while designating 1 + 1/F inanimate items in the area. At the end of the casting time, those items become invisible, and can only be seen from within the area by creatures making the indicated resistance check. Any creature that enters the area makes the resist check, but are unaware that they are making it if they fail.;5d6 vs PER negates;special*;permanent;up to 30 + 10/F’ radius;obfuscate items
Wardings;15;Akvo’morto;4 rounds;The caster sets Akvo’morto by touching at least four corners of the area during the casting time. If the resistance check is failed the creature’s lungs fill with poisonous water, causing death in four rounds if the drowning and poison is not remedied.;5d6 vs HEA negates;special*;12 + 3/F hours;up to 30 + 10/F’ radius;lethal ward
Wardings;16;Multi Ward;1 round;Multi Ward is cast on another warding spell cast by the caster. It forces an additional 1 + 1/F resistance check(s) to be made to breach the ward. The duration and area of the ward is not extended by this spell. Multi Ward can only be cast on any single ward once.;none;special*;special*;one ward;make ward stronger
Changings;1;Distill;1 round;Distill allows the caster to change any aqueous liquid into another aqueous liquid. The magical properties of the liquid (if any) are unaltered. Magical liquids that succeed on a resistance check of 3d6 vs PWR are not affected. The caster needs to have tasted the created liquid, which must be non-poisonous and non-magical.;none;touch;instantaneous;2 + 1/F pints;change liquid
Changings;2;Blade Oil;1 round;Blade Oil covers the weapon in a sticky corrosive substance. Targeted weapons deal extra 1d4 acid damage (bonus) on every hit.This spell can be combined with Damage Alteration to change its damage type, with acid damage replacing water or cold in the rotation.;none;multitouch;1 + 1/F minutes;1 + 1/2F weapons;increase damage
Changings;3;Mend Flesh;1 round;The target of Mend Flesh heals 3d6 damage points. For every two finesses, one limb/organ has its functions restored if damaged within the last hour.;willing target;multitouch;instantaneous;1 + 1/2F creatures;heal
Changings;4;Harm Transmutation;reaction;Harm Transmutation allows the caster to change one incoming damage source to another damage type. Damage type is transformed to the next type in following order: Earth → Fire/Heat → Lightning → Water or Cold → EarthFor every 2 finesses the type is transformed one step further.;none;caster;instantaneous;1 source of damage;change damage type
Changings;5;Damage Alteration;none;Damage Alteration allows the caster to change damage type of one spell when used in conjunction with a damaging spell. Damage type is transformed to the next type in following order: Earth → Fire/heat → Lightning → Water or Cold → EarthFor every 2 finesses the type is transformed one step further.;none;caster;instantaneous;1 spell;change damage type
Changings;6;Elemental Mastery;2 rounds;Elemental Mastery enables the magician to convert the indicated volume of one element (fire, air, water, or earth) to another. Element is transformed to the next element in following order: Earth → Fire → Air → Water/Ice → EarthFor every 2 finesses the element is transformed one step further.;3d6 vs PWR negates;touch;instantaneous;1 + 1/2F’ cube;change element
Changings;7;Malform;1 round;The caster uses Malform to temporarily reshape the target into a less efficient form. They can choose one Inferior Attribute, Susceptibility or Disability to bestow upon the creature for the duration. A creature can be affected multiple times, but granted disability must be different between castings.;4d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;1 + 1/2F creatures;impose disability
Changings;8;Disguise;4 rounds;Disguise allows the caster to alter the appearance of the target to within 10% of the same height and weight. Gender, hair, and eye color, etc. may be freely changed. This does not change any creature abilities or racial abilities, and changes are purely aesthetic.;4d6 vs PWR negates;touch;6 + 2/F hours;single creature;change appearance
Changings;9;Elements to Flesh;1 round;Once affected, the target may activate this effect as a reaction to being hit by a source of earth, fire/heat, lightning, water or cold damage. Instead of taking damage, the target is healed for half the damage they would take. Resistances do not reduce this healing. The spell then ends.;willing target;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single creature;heal
Changings;10;Augment;2 rounds;For the duration of the spell the caster chooses 1 + 1/2F abilities to the creature following Mutation mechanics. At the end of duration any experience or HEA points used to pay for the changes are refunded. A creature can only have one instance of this effect active.Detailed Mutation mechanics and a table of creature abilities are provided in Appendix C. ;4d6 vs PWR negates;touch;2 + 1/F hours;single target;temporary improvement
Changings;11;Enmass/Endwarf;4 rounds;This spell allows the caster to greatly alter the size of the target. At the time of casting the caster chooses one of the two effects.Enmass: the target is greatly increased in size. They become stronger, can traverse great distances with ease, land devastating strikes and take less weapon damage. This however comes at the cost of reduced agility and limited stealth abilities.Endwarf: the target shrinks into a tiny version of itself. They get more agile and harder to spot. As a trade off, their physical strength suffers, their blows become much weaker, they take more weapon damage and they don’t move as fast.These effects can be further amplified with finesses. A detailed table of these effects is located in Appendix C.;4d6 vs PWR negates;touch;6 + 2/F hours;single creature;make bigger
Changings;12;Reflect Elements;1 round;Reflect Elements allows the caster to use some elemental energy hitting them for a revenge attack. When this spell is active, the caster may as a reaction to any source of earth, fire/heat, lightning, water/cold damage transform that energy and deal half as much damage to the attacker. Damage type is transformed to the next type in following order: Earth → Fire/Heat → Lightning → Water or Cold → Earth;special;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;self;throw elements back
Changings;13;Alter Age;2 rounds;The target of Age who fails the resistance check, instantly and permanently becomes 1d20 + 4/F years older/younger (the caster’s discretion). However, no creature may be made younger than 14 years old.;5d6 vs PWR negates;LOS 20 + 5/F’;instantaneous;single creature;change age
Changings;14;Mutate;4 rounds;Mutate empowers the caster to make changes or “improvements” to a species. Extra arms or legs can be added or removed, eye position and number changed, skeletal shape altered, etc. You can choose one ability, which is added to the target’s creature abilities. Detailed Mutation mechanics and a table of creature abilities are provided in Appendix C. The use of this spell should be recorded by the GM similarly to a created magic item.;5d6 vs PWR negates;touch;instantaneous;single creature;“improve” species
Changings;15;Dissipate Elements;2 rounds;The caster picks one damage type between earth, fire/heat, lightning, water, or cold damage. Dissipate Elements causes any sources of chosen type damage hitting the caster to instead deal no damage. Area of effect sources of damage only have the caster excluded.The caster may choose a different damage type at the beginning of every round.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;negate damage
Changings;16;Shaper of Creation;1 round;The caster of this spell is in tune with the elements around them. Shaper of Creation allows them to do the following:Mend Flesh is either fully finessed for the number of targets at no additional unit cost or can be used as a fifth. In addition its target distance is changed to LOS 60’.Harm Transmutation can be applied to 1 damage source affecting any creature within the area of 60’ centered on the caster. The type of damage can be freely chosen from normal rotation.Damage Alteration can be used for no unit cost. The type of damage can be freely chosen from normal rotation.Elemental Mastery’s casting time is reduced to fifth and can target matter within 60’ of the caster.Malform’s resistance check is increased to 5d6 vs PWR.Elements to Flesh can be casted as a reaction on a creature within 60’. It is then immediately activated.Reflect Elements can be used on instances of elemental damage hitting creatures within 60’ of the caster.Dissipate Elements can grant immunity to two more damage types from the list or grant immunity to the current active element to 2 creatures within 60’. The choice is made at the beginning of the round.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self, 60’ radius;master of elements
Frost Magics;1;Frost;2 rounds;The caster coasts the indicated surface area in a layer of frost, killing most smaller plant life, and weakening objects and structures, effectively losing 8 points of STR. Magical structures and items must make a 3d6 vs PWR resist check to negate this effect.;none;LOS 100’;4 + 2/F rounds;20 + 5/F’ radius;frost over things
Frost Magics;2;Frost Cloud;1 round;The caster summons cold air and wraps it around targets and those that fail the resistance check lose 30 feet of movement (up to half their total movement speed) for 3 rounds.;4d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 120 + 30/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;1 + 1/2F creatures;slow
Frost Magics;3;Ice Bubble;1 round;An aura of intense cold in a 10+5/F’ radius surrounds the caster, those inside the radius gain 2 ranks of Resist Fire.;none;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;grant fire resist
Frost Magics;4;Frost Wall;1 round;The caster creates a wall of ice in front of them, blocking or creating an obstacle. The wall is translucent, LOS spells may be targeted through it with a 2d6 Arcana check.The wall has 10 + 5/2F DP and can be destroyed with 4d6 vs STR check.;none;LOS 5’;1 + 1/F minutes;5’ x 7’ x 2”;wall of ice
Frost Magics;5;Field of Ice;1 round;The caster coats the indicated area of ground in a thin, slippery layer of ice. Any creature moving more than 10’ per round through this area needs to make the resistance check or fall prone. This can be used to make a layer of ice on a surface of a liquid such as a lake.;4d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 120 + 30/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;20 + 5/F’ radius;area of frost
Frost Magics;6;Frostmourne;2 rounds;The caster enchants a weapon with cold. The attacks do an additional 1d6 of cold damage and on a hit, the target loses 5 + 5/F‘ of movement for 3 rounds if they fail the resist check, which occurs on each hit.;4d6 vs HEA negates;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single weapon;frosty attack
Frost Magics;7;Glacio’kiraso;1 rounds;The target is granted armor of chilling frost. All that engage in melee combat against the target take (1 + 1/4F)d6 of cold damage and lose 5+5/2F’ of movement speed per strike on the target. This loss lasts 3 rounds.;willing target;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;frost armor
Frost Magics;8;Frost Ball;1 round;The caster launches a ball of frost that explodes at the target point, damaging all inside the effect for 6d6 cold damage and reducing their movement speeds by 20’ for 3 rounds. Passing the resist check will halve the damage and prevent movement speed loss.;5d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;20 + 5/F’ radius;icy explosion
Frost Magics;9;Chilly Wind;1 round;The caster blows a gust of cold air at the target(s), those that fail are chilled by the cold air and gain 1 + 1/2F ranks of Susceptible to Cold.;5d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 100’;1 + 1/F minutes;1 + 1/2F creatures;susceptibility to cold
Frost Magics;10;Ice Lance;1 round;The caster launches a giant spear of ice from their hands, dealing 9d6 of cold damage in a 4 + 1/F’ wide line between them and the target point. Any creature that fails the resist check also loses 1/5 of their movement speed for 3 rounds.;5d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 80 + 20/F’;instantaneous;4 + 1/F’ wide line;spear of ice
Frost Magics;11;Weakening Air;1 round;The caster sends a blast of chilling air. The target creatures gain Inferior STR, HEA or AGI for the duration. For every two finesses, grant a rank of a different Inferior Attribute.;5d6 vs HEA negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;2 + 1/2F creatures;weaken foes
Frost Magics;12;Permafrost;2 rounds;The caster freezes a target. They are Magically Paralyzed while encased in the ice. The ice has a Damage Point pool of 50. Upon hitting 0, the ice shatters and the target is unfrozen.;5d6 vs HEA negates;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;encase in ice
Frost Magics;13;Cold Heart;1 minute;The caster gains 1+1/4F ranks of Resist Cold.;none;caster;1 year;self;resist cold
Frost Magics;14;Frost Walk;1 round;Caster enchants the beings that they touch. The targets can freeze the air at the bottom of their feet, allowing them to move about in such a way that they can walk on air. If they are knocked prone while they are in the air, they can cause the air beneath them to freeze and they will remain at their current altitude.;willing target;multitouch;2 + 1/F hours;touched creatures;walk on air
Frost Magics;15;Preserve;3 rounds;The caster freezes an entity if they fail the resist check, which Magically Paralyzes them. Then, if the caster desires, they may have the target make an additional 6d6 vs HEA resist check or die. Otherwise, the target is magically preserved, preventing decay and keeping the target alive if it is alive. The target is not aware of time passing if kept alive in this state. ;6d6 vs HEA negates;touch;permanent;single target;preserve in ice
Frost Magics;16;Frost Beam;2 rounds;The caster fires a beam of ice that deals 10d6 cold damage in a 10’ wide line to a target. Then at that point, in a 20 + 5/F’ radius, an explosion of 14d6 cold damage occurs. The resist check is applied for both sources of damages, so only 1 roll is necessary. A creature in the overlapping area only takes 14d6 cold damage, not 24d6.;6d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 100’;instantaneous;special*;freezing beam
Code of Riptide;;Abyssal Chains;1 round;The caster thrusts out their arms, blasting a set of watery chains at a chosen target. If the target fails the resist check, the chains grab the target’s arms or any other appendage and the caster pulls it 10 + 5/F feet towards themselves. The chains disappear after the spell is cast regardless of the result.;3d6 vs AGI negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;yank
Code of Riptide;;Wellspring ;1 round;The caster stomps one foot and generates a small geyser to erupt under the chosen target. If the target fails a 3d6 vs STR they are knocked prone. The geyser is 10’ high, and originates from the ground.;3d6 vs STR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;knock off balance
Code of Riptide;;Sea Spray;1 round;The caster shoots a fine mist of seawater at the target, clouding its vision and stinging its eyes. This reduces the target’s LOS distance to 60 - 5/F feet and subtracts 1 + 1/2F from all natural rolls-to-hit for 1 round. This spell does not affect enemies that do not rely on sight.;3d6 vs PER negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;single target;cloud vision, eyes hurt
Code of Riptide;;Brine ;1 round;The caster traces a circle in the air with their finger that opens up to release a high-pressure blast of briney water, Drenching a target and dealing 1d6 pain damage if that target has suffered edged or piercing damage within the last round. If no edged or piercing damage was taken, the target does not take the pain damage but they are still Drenched. ;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;instantaneous;1 + 1/2F targets;salt in the wound
Code of Riptide;;Change Current;1 round;The caster influences water currents to push people and loose objects at the surface, tossing them about wildly. This effectively moves them 20 + 10/F feet in a chosen direction. Making a 4d6 vs STR nullifies the push of the currents. This spell only works on targets swimming, floating, or submerged in a body of water.;4d6 vs STR negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;3 rounds;10’ radius;rough seas
Code of Riptide;;Curse of Floodwater ;1 rounds ;The caster fires a water jet at the ground, forming viscous pools of water and flooding the area. This lowers the speed of any creatures in the target area (excluding the caster) by 1/3 of its original value and grants an Inferior AGI when they are inside the area. ;4d6 vs AGI negates;caster;2 rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;difficult terrain
Code of Riptide;;Geyser Mines ;2 rounds;The caster stomps their foot after channeling, causing 4 geysers to erupt on the battlefield under and around enemies. Any enemy hit by a geyser must succeed a 4d6 vs AGI or be blasted 10 feet away from the caster and be knocked prone. Succeeding at the check will blast the target 10 feet away but they will not be knocked prone. Any target can only be hit once per round by this spell. Each geyser is 15’ high, and originates from the ground.;4d6 vs AGI partial*;LOS 100’;instantaneous;4 + 1/2F targets;more geysers
Code of Riptide;;High Tide ;1 round;The caster generates a prism of salty water and fires it at chosen target, dealing 4d6 pain damage (halved for resist) if they have been hit by edged or piercing damage within the last round.  If no edged or piercing damage was taken, the target automatically succeeds the resist check but they are still Drenched. ;4d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 100 + 20/F’;Instantaneous;single target;more salt in more wounds
Code of Riptide;;Into the Depths;1 rounds;The caster shoots a thin disc of water at the target’s face, surrounding it and inducing a hallucination that the target is floating deep below the surface in the open ocean. Upon panicking, the target must attempt the CSE resist check at the start of every round in order to take any action; taking damage from any source ends this effect immediately. This spell does not suffocate or deal any damage.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 100’;4 + 1/F rounds;1 + 1/4F targets;deceive and frighten
Code of Riptide;;Tide Wall;2 rounds;The caster channels for 2 rounds, then summons a wall of turbulent water at a chosen location. The water appears to be falling in a motion similar to a waterfall, but stays within the confines of its dimensions; this rushing motion prevents any attempt to see through the wall. It is possible to move through the wall, taking 2d6 pain damage if they have been hit by edged or piercing damage within the last round (this will apply Drenched) but LOS targeting through the wall is not possible. If the caster chooses, they can impose a 4d6 vs STR check to pass through the wall.;none*;LOS 100’;4 + 1/F rounds;7’ tall x 5’ long x 2’ thick;wall of solid water
Code of Riptide;;Rolling Surf;1 round;The caster summons a large wave that expands outward from their body in a cone, washing over and Drenching all enemies caught within the area of effect. This also knocks them prone unless they make the 5d6 vs STR resist check.;5d6 vs STR*;caster;instantaneous;10’ x 80’ cone;big wave
Code of Riptide;;Roaring Current;2 rounds;The caster charms the target such that all they can hear is the sound of intensely crashing surf; they can still be Deafened by spells such as Thunderclap. This makes normal communication with them very difficult and they have to be shouted at. The targets also cannot complete any actions that take over one round.;5d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60’;4 + 1/F rounds;1 + 1/2F targets;seashell effect
Code of Riptide;;Rising Pressure ;1 round;The target of this spell must be Drenched. If they fail a 5d6 vs WIL resist check, they experience the sensation of intense underwater pressure without equalization (similar to ascending improperly during diving). This deals 2d6 pain damage and leaves behind a lingering headache. For the next round, the target is Dazed, and can only move and talk. This also grants the target 2 ranks of Inferior AGI for one day if they fail the WIL resist check (a successful check negates the Daze and one rank of Inferior AGI but the target is still damaged).;5d6 vs WIL*;LOS 100’ + 20/F;1 day*;Single target;gives target “the bends”
Code of Riptide;;Erosion;2 rounds;This spell has a casting time of 2 rounds, during which water begins to leak from the ground regardless of the environment. Targets within the radius make a 5d6 vs STR. On a fail, they are trapped in a whirling cyclone of water that erodes away their defenses, causing their Armor Defense Values to be temporarily reduced by 2 points per round (maximum of 8 point reduction). The STR check can be reattempted at the start of each round that the spell is in effect (The Defense Value reduction lasts until combat ends). This spell does not affect new creatures that move into the area, or creatures that have succeeded the STR resist check.;5d6 vs STR;LOS 100’;4 rounds;20’ + 5/F radius;reduce armor
Code of Riptide;;Ocean’s Reach;2 rounds;A massive geyser blast erupts from the earth, sending briney water cascading down in a large area. Those in the radius are Drenched and take 8d6 pain damage if they have taken piercing or edged damage in the last round. The spell lasts for 4 + 1/F rounds and applies the pain damage at the start of each round. If no edged or piercing damage was taken, the targets automatically succeed the resist check but they are still Drenched. ;5d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 120’;4 + 1/F rounds;30’ + 10/F radius;cascading salty water
Code of Riptide;;Tidal Singularity;2 rounds;The caster channels for 2 rounds, then hurls a large sphere of white water at the enemy. On contact with the ground, the sphere explodes and generates a huge whirlpool that spirals all enemies within its radius around and around for 4 rounds, dealing 6d6 water damage at the start of each round. In addition, targets within the whirlpool will be drawn 5 ft closer to the center each round and cannot move on their turn, changing their position on the battlefield accordingly and will be drenched. Succeeding a 6d6 vs AGI will halve the damage and allow the target to move and escape the vortex.;6d6 vs AGI*;LOS 120’;4 rounds;30’ radius;massive deadly whirlpool
Sanoakvo;1;Lesser Ocean’s Aid;1 reaction;The target of this spell gains 1d6 temporary DP.;none;LOS 20 + 5/F’;instantaneous;single creature;healing
Sanoakvo;2;Purify Surroundings;1 round;This spell purifies an indicated volume of any aqueous liquid, making the water safe to drink. Certain magical sources of pollution or corruption may be able to resist this effect; in this case, it must make the resist check.;3d6 PWR negates;LOS 40 + 10/F’;instantaneous;20 + 5/F’ radius;utility
Sanoakvo;3;Dousing Tide;1 round;A swirling thread of magical water dances around the target for the duration. Until the spell ends, the target gains 1 rank of Resist Fire and cannot suffer from the Burning condition.;none;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;single creature;buff
Sanoakvo;4;Ocean’s Aid;1 round;The target of this spell gains 4d6 temporary DP.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single creature;healing
Sanoakvo;5;Purify Ally;1 fifth;If an ally has been subjected to a negative status effect, this spell allows them to reattempt the resist check one die easier. The following status effects are immune to this spell: Paralyzed, Magical; Suspended in Time/Blue-Fielded; Prone;none;LOS 40 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single creature;buff, utility
Sanoakvo;6;Restorative Raindrop;1 round;Each target of this spell is healed for 3d6 DP up to their maximum.;none;LOS 40 + 10/F’;instantaneous;up to 3 creatures;healing
Sanoakvo;7;Healing Wave;1 round;All allies within the area of effect are healed for 4d6 DP up to their maximum.;none;caster;instantaneous;10’ x 40’ cone;healing
Sanoakvo;8;Font of the Living Sea;1 round;Call forth an avatar of the sea’s bountiful life. This object, taking a form of the caster’s choosing, is intangible and indestructible, and restores 4d6 DP per round to all chosen creatures within its radius.This spell must be “concentrated” on throughout; refer to rules on spell interruption. If the caster fails their interruption check and loses concentration, the Font only heals 2d4 DP per round.;none;LOS 20 + 5/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;healing, creation
Sanoakvo;9;Bubble Deathward;1 round;A bubble of magical water surrounds the target of this spell. If the target falls below 0 DP during the spell duration, the bubble pops and immediately heals the target for 4d6 DP. If the spell duration expires without the target falling unconscious, the bubble pops and heals the target for 6d6 DP.Only one instance of this effect can be active on the target at any point in time.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;buff, healing
Sanoakvo;10;Bubble Harmward;1 round;A bubble of magical water surrounds the target of this spell. Until the bubble pops, the target has 2 ranks of Resist Fire. The bubble will pop when the spell ends or when the target takes over 15 damage at once, in which case it will halve the damage of the triggering attack before popping.;none;touch;1 + 1/F minutes;single target;defense
Sanoakvo;11;Tides’ Rejuvenation;1 minute;The target of this spell must be someone who has suffered an Attribute drain within the last 24 hours. After the spell is finished, a single Attribute drained is restored to them. This spell does not regenerate stressed Attributes or Exceptionals.;none;touch;instantaneous;single target;buff
Sanoakvo;12;Vestments of the Nereid;1 round;When this spell is cast, a spectral cloak of mystical water and swimming fish surrounds the caster. For the duration of the spell, all healing performed by spells cast by the target gains a flat bonus equal to ¼ of the caster’s PWR.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;self;buff, healing
Sanoakvo;13;Sanafluctus;1 round;All chosen creatures within the area of effect are healed 5d8 DP. This healing can go over the targets’ maximum, and any overflow becomes temporary DP.;none;caster;instantaneous;25 x 50’ cone;healing
Sanoakvo;14;All Currents Lead Home;1 minute;This spell calls the currents of elemental water to guide a recently departed soul back to its body and restore it to life.Refer to Appendix C: Spell Clarifications for general resurrection mechanics.;none;touch;instantaneous;single creature;buff, healing
Sanoakvo;15;Wellspring Vitae;2 rounds;The target of this spell is healed DP equal to (caster’s PWR)d8. This healing can go over the target’s maximum, and any overflow becomes temporary DP.;none;LOS 10 + 2/F’;instantaneous;single creature;healing
Sanoakvo;16;Great Torrent of Life;4 rounds;A cloud of purifying rain gathers over a spot on the ground touched by the caster. After the casting time, all chosen creatures within the radius heal 2d6 DP per round for the spell duration as the life-giving rains wash over them. This healing can go over the targets’ maximum, and any overflow becomes temporary DP.;none;touch;10 + 5/F minutes;1000 + 500/F’ radius;healing
Storms;1;Umbrella;1 round;Umbrella creates a force field a foot above the target’s head that follows them. This field will protect them from drizzle or light rain. The water will slide off the field and not touch the caster. This will prevent the Drenched condition from light rain.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;2 + 1/F hours;1 + 1/F creatures;block rain
Storms;2;Forecast;1 minute;The caster beseeches the elemental spirits of the wind around them, and learns the weather forecast for the next 4 + 1/F days. This would be the natural weather that will occur, barring any magic or unpredictable effects.;none;caster;instantaneous;self;know weather
Storms;3;Raincloud;1 round;Raincloud summons a thin, grey cloud a few feet above the target point, which will begin drizzling onto creatures within the radius. Any creature that ends their turn under the cloud will become Drenched.The caster can use an action on their turn to move the raincloud up to 20 feet in any direction.;none;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;10 + 5/F’ radius;create light rain
Storms;4;Thunderstorm;1 minute;This spell must be cast outside. If it is already storming, this spell will change the storm to the casted effect (a magical storm must make a 4d6 vs PWR to negate).The caster, over the course of a minute, begins gathering elemental energy from the plane of water and sending it into the atmosphere. Once formed, the storm breaks with a heavy rain and lightning strikes. The caster has no control over the storm after it is formed.;none;caster;1 + 1/F hours;600 + 150/F’ radius;call thunderstorm
Storms;5;Storm Sphere;1 round;Gathering power from the elemental planes of water and air, the caster generates a swirling storm of water and lightning. The sphere is a 5’ radius, and any creatures that begin their turn in the sphere must make a 3d6 vs AGI to halve 3d6 water damage. As a fifth, the caster can cause an arc of lightning to strike at a creature within melee range of the sphere, and they must make a 3d6 vs AGI to halve 3d6 lightning damage.As an action, the caster can move the sphere up to 30 feet in any direction.;3d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;special*;sphere of lightning
Storms;6;Galestorm;2 rounds;This spell must be cast outside. If it is already storming, this spell will change the storm to the casted effect (a magical storm must make a 4d6 vs PWR to negate).The caster electrically charges the air around them, and wind begins to whip up as rain begins to fall. Any creatures within the area, including the caster, can cast air and water spells easier, lowering the unit cost of these spells by 1, with a minimum cost of 1 unit.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;30 + 10/F’ radius;call galestorm
Storms;7;Lightning Spear;2 rounds;Lightning Spear allows the caster to create spears of lightning in their hands, which can be wielded as either a melee or throwing weapon. After the spell is cast, the caster can use a fifth to create a spear of lightning in their hands. This spear counts as an Impaling/Thrown weapon, has no STR requirement, and deals a base 2d6 of lightning damage on a hit, or d20+4 lightning damage on impale. It provides no weapon DVs, and has a range of 20’ if thrown. If the weapon is thrown, it disappears after it hits or misses, and the caster must spend a fifth to create a new one.;none;caster;1 + 1/F minute;self;create spears of lightning
Storms;8;Storm Step;1 round;This spell must be cast under a storm, either natural or created by a spell in this group.The caster teleports LOS 60 + 15/F’ away, and a bolt of lightning crashes down. All creatures in a 10’ radius from the position they were standing must make a 4d6 vs HEA check to halve 6d6 lightning damage.;none, 4d6 vs HEA halves;LOS 60 + 15/F’, caster;instantaneous;self, 10’ radius;teleport in lightning strike
Storms;9;Storm Whip;1 reaction*;As a reaction to being hit with a combat attack, the caster lashes out with a whip of crackling lightning and water. The target creature must make a 4d6 vs AGI to halve 6d6 lightning or water damage (caster’s choice). If they fail the resistance check, they are also Drenched.;4d6 vs AGI halves;special*;instantaneous;single creature;storm retribution
Storms;10;Stormo’kiraso;1 round;The target is granted armor of dark billowing clouds, which flashes with internal lightning. While wearing the armor, the target gains a rank of Resist Lightning or Resist Water (caster’s choice). Additionally, any creature that hits the target with a combat attack takes 1d6 lightning damage as it arcs from the armor. This damage occurs per hit.;willing target;touch;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;storm armor
Storms;11;Icestorm;2 rounds;This spell must be cast outside. If it is already storming, this spell will change the storm to the casted effect (a magical storm must make a 5d6 vs PWR to negate).The caster summons powerful winds, rain, and invokes chilling temperatures in the target area. Each creature that ends their turn within the area must make a 5d6 vs AGI check to halve 4d6 cold/ice or water damage (caster’s choice).;5d6 vs AGI halves;LOS 120 + 30/F’;1 + 1/F minute;20 + 5/F’ radius;call hailstorm
Storms;12;Maelstrom;1 round;This spell must be cast outside. If it is already storming, this spell will change the storm to the casted effect (a magical storm must make a 5d6 vs PWR to negate).Maelstrom creates a whirling mass of wind, rain, and lightning about the caster, who stands unaffected in the eye of the storm. The maelstrom moves with the caster. At the start of each of the caster’s turns, they can choose whether the storm is composed of torrential rain, crackling lightning, or pummeling hail. Each creature that ends their turn in the maelstrom must make a 5d6 vs HEA resist check to halve 4d6 of water (rain), lightning (lightning), or ice/cold (hail) damage based on the caster’s previous choice.In addition, creatures that fail the resist check are affected with the associated condition until their next turn:Rain – Drenched; Lightning – Dazed; Hail – Movement reduced by half. ;5d6 vs HEA halves;caster;1 + 1/F minute;60 + 15/F’ radius;fury of the storm
Storms;13;Cyclone;1 round;The caster summons a cyclone on a point within range, which is a cylinder of 10’ radius and 30’ high. A creature in the cyclone must make a 5d6 vs STR resist check or take 10d6 blunt damage, half on a success. If they fail the check, the creature is additionally Grappled by the cyclone. The cyclone can only grapple one creature at a time, and rolls 6d6 on the contested STR check to maintain the grapple.As an action, the caster can move the cyclone up to 60 feet in any direction. If the cyclone is grappling a creature, the creature moves with the cyclone and remains Grappled.;5d6 vs STR*;LOS 120 + 30/F’;1 + 1/F minute;10’ radius, 30’ high;summon cyclone
Storms;14;Quell;1 round;Quell allows the caster to calm any natural storm, and acts as a rank 14 Revoke on any magical storm. The skies calm, winds die, and rain stops. Any environmental hazards or storm-based abilities are negated by this.;none;LOS;instantaneous;2000’ radius;quell storm
Storms;15;Stormovoki;4 rounds;Stormovoki summons 4 + 2/F storm elementals from a source of water or air.Refer to Appendix C: Spell Clarification for creature write ups and control mechanics.;none;LOS 30 + 10/F’;30 + 10/F minutes;special*;storm elementals
Storms;16;Pluvego;2 rounds;This spell must be cast outside. If it is already storming, this spell will change the storm to the casted effect (a magical storm must make a 6d6 vs PWR to negate).Pluvego utilized wind to sharpen rain in a storm into small blades of ice. The rain of the affected storm will change from water damage (if any) to edged damage, and will add an extra 3d6 of edged damage to the rain. If there is no other associated resist check, the resist check for this damage is 6d6 vs HEA to halve.;special*;special*;special*;single storm;sharpen rain
Charms;1;Distract;1 reaction*;The target of this spell is momentarily distracted from what they are doing. This distraction is enough to disrupt spell casting and other activities that take large amounts of concentration. This spell can be cast as a reaction to any action that requires concentration, so it can be used to disrupt single round casting time spells and other complex actions that take a single round.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;single target;distract creature
Charms;2;Rockabye;1 round;The target of this spell slips into a natural sleep and becomes Unconscious, and can be woken by another creature using their action to jostle the sleeping creature awake. Any loud noises or other stimuli can awaken the target as well. If the target of the spell is in combat, the resist check becomes a 3d6 vs WIL check.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;instantaneous;1 + 1/F creatures;put creature to sleep
Charms;3;Repress Fear;1 round;The targets of this spell have all of their unreasonable fears, magical or not, repressed for the duration of the spell. The spell negates Frightened and the target gets Resist Fear 1 for the duration.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;2 + 1/F hours;1 + 1/F creatures;represses fears
Charms;3;Dismay;1 round;Dismay causes any creatures that can see the caster within the area to attempt the 4d6 vs CSE resist check, or become Frightened and flee from the caster at their maximum movement rate for the duration. They may reattempt the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on a success.;4d6 vs CSE negates;caster;4 + 2/F rounds;30 + 10/F’ radius;cause fear
Charms;4;Frostfeet;1 round;The targets of this spell believe themselves to have their feet frozen or restrained to the ground, and prevented from moving. They are Rooted for the duration of the spell, and may reattempt the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on a success.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;1 + 1/F creatures;freeze in place
Charms;5;Relax;1 minute;The targets of this spell will relax and quickly fall asleep. All targets gain a full rest period in half the normal time (4 hours, instead of 8; 6 hours for Soulless creatures that normally require 12 hours of rest). In addition, the targets are able to skip a number of additional rest periods they received without getting tired and go days without sleep. Targets can sleep for up to 12 hours using this spell, but they can be awakened normally during that time.;willing targets;LOS 20 + 5/F’;special*;2 + 2/F creatures;relaxing rest
Charms;5;Befriend;2 rounds;Befriend immediately cancels any hatred towards the caster and their companions felt by the targets of the spell. This will last as long as none of the perceived friends take a hostile action (including casting spells) towards the Befriended targets. If the targets of this spell are engaged in combat with the caster and their companions, the resist check is 3d6 vs CSE.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;1 + 1/2F creatures;enemies to friends
Charms;6;Regress;1 minute;While casting this spell, the caster concentrates on a specific time period or memory that he wishes the target to recall. If the target is willing, they can recall the memories as if they just occurred. This spell can be used to see through mental blocks, but not through active spell effects. If this spell is finessed for effects, it can conjure up an additional memory per finesse.;willing target;touch;instantaneous;single creature;remember
Charms;7;Witchy Sleep;2 rounds;If the targets of Witchy Sleep fail their resistance checks, they slip into a deep, magical sleep and become Unconscious. They will only awaken when the spell is canceled by the caster, Revoked, the duration expires or the target takes more than 10 points of damage. ;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;6 + 2/F hours;1 + 1/F creatures;induce magical sleep
Charms;7;Confusion;1 round;This spell causes those within the area of effect who fail the resistance check to act erratically for the duration of the spell. Roll 1d10, on 1 they will carry through with their planned actions; on 2-3 they will attack each other, on 4-10 they will mill about aimlessly and bicker amongst themselves. Affected creatures can reattempt the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on a success.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;10 + 5/F’ radius;create confusion
Charms;8;Repress Pain;1 round;The targets of this spell that are willing or fail the resistance check have their pain tolerance increased significantly for the duration of the spell. They gain two ranks of Resist Pain. Additionally, they also receive 1 point of damage reduction from any source.;4d6 vs WIL negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;1 + 1/F creatures;represses pain
Charms;9;Prevent;1 round;In a soothing voice, the caster says “you really shouldn’t…” followed by an action. Targeted creatures that can hear the caster and fail the resistance check feel that they should not perform the started action. If the target gets damaged or must make a resistance check while this spell is in effect, the charm against the target is broken.;4d6 vs CSE negates;hearing;1 + 1/F minutes;1 + 1/F creatures;prevent action
Charms;9;Neophyte;2 rounds;The target of Neophyte who fails the resistance check suddenly forgets all his background training for the spell’s duration, including skills, spells, incants, abilities, etc. Warriors don’t have a clue as to the use of their weapons, magicians can no longer remember spells, priests cannot even remember the name of their deity nor the dogma of their religion (thus becoming powerless), etc.The only remaining knowledge would be non-background or universal skills, and creature abilities. The target of this spell may reattempt the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on a success.;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;4 + 2/F rounds;single creature;forget background
Charms;10;Betask;2 rounds;Betask enchants any creature to do the caster’s bidding if they fail the resist check. The target is charmed. If the target chooses to disobey the caster, the spell is broken, but the target loses one point of WIL permanently. When the spell ceases, the target will be completely aware of the enchantment and their actions while enspelled. ;4d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 + 1/F minutes;1 + 1/F creatures;impose will
Charms;11;Desire;1 round;All targets that fail the spell’s resistance check have a certain desire that is stated by the caster at the time of the spell's casting. For the duration, the targets will seek to satisfy this desire. Targets cannot be made to harm or kill themselves with this spell. After the duration expires, the target will be confused and vaguely remember events that transpired while enspelled.;5d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;2 + 1/F hours;1 + 1/F creatures;instill desire
Charms;12;The Drowning;2 rounds;A target that fails this spell’s resistance check believes they are drowning and will start suffocating. Targets do not actually have to breathe for the spell to function, but creatures that must breathe will drop Unconscious and begin dying after a number of rounds equal to their HEA score. While a creature is gasping for breath, they are Stunned and cannot perform any other action. The target(s) of this spell may reattempt the resist check at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on a success.;5d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 30 + 10/F’;special*;1 + 1/2F creatures;“drown” creatures
Charms;13;Nightmare;2 rounds;The target of this spell has their mind thrust into their subconscious, where they have neverending and terrifying nightmares. Their body seems vacant and vegetative and are Unconscious.;5d6 vs WIL negates;touch;permanent;single creature;withdraws mind
Charms;14;Bewitch;2 rounds;This spell functions identically to Betask, except the duration is greatly increased, and the target lose 3 points of WIL if they choose to disobey the caster.;5d6 vs CSE negates;LOS 60 + 15/F’;1 month;single creature;impose control
Charms;15;Uncanny Charisma;1 round;Uncanny Charisma grants unnatural charm to the caster. Any social interaction  and skill check against Acting or Psychology receives a two dice bonus and even complete strangers will treat them as if both parties have been friends for years. Creatures may attempt a resistance check when interacting with the caster. Creatures that succeed at the resistance check are immune for the duration but do not detect that the resistance check happens.;5d6 vs CSE negates;caster;30 + 10/F minutes;self;boost charisma
Charms;16;Chaotic Battlefield;2 rounds;Chaotic Battlefield warps the minds of creatures hostile to the caster, distorting their perception of friend and foe. For the duration the affected creatures treat the caster and the caster’s party as friends and direct their hostile actions towards their own allies. At the end of each round they may attempt the resistance again to break the effect.;6d6 vs CSE negates;caster;1 + 1/F minutes;60 + 15/F’ radius;attack friends
